A general review on vasculitis nodosa of report in literature since the work of Strammler 1958 is given. The neurological and psychiatric manifestations of the disease are completely dealt with, whereas dermatological, ophthalmological and otological aspects are brieftly mentioned. Varieties of diffuse and localized cerebral, as well as peripheral syndromes are described. The neuropathological findings are also discussed extensively.
The multiplication of 8 strains of herpes simplex virus of type 1 and 2 in normal and stimulated macrophages of NMRI and C57/bl mice was tested. Only 3 strains multiplied in normal NMRI macrophages, whereas all strains multiplied in stimulated cells. No multiplication except of one strain was observed in C57/bl macrophages. The multiplication rates of the virus strains correlated well with the determination of the acid-soluble and acid-insoluble thymidine (dTR) radioactivity and autoradiographic studies of infected (normal and stimulated) NMRI and C57/bl macrophages. The influence of the age of mice used for obtaining the macrophages was also studied. In stimulated macrophages more viral DNA was synthesised than in non-stimulated cells.
The interaction of anxiety and autonomic activation as a factor in the development and persistency of pathological anxiety was investigated with the aid of self-rating procedures and a habituation experiment. The state of activation was varied systematically in 40 normal subjects by various experimental conditions and by the administration of a tranquilizer. The degree of anxiety and activation were able to be differentiated in the investigated range of mean attentiveness. Anxious expectancy is perceived in particular as subjective anxiety. Fatigue and sedation, on the other hand, demonstrate subjective and autonomic desactivation. Corresponding differences can be demonstrated for the anxiolytic and sedative effects of tranquilizers. The time course of habituation is a more exact indicator than the amplitude of the orienting response. Cognitively provoked apprehensiveness, thus, appears to be qualitatively different as compared to psychoautonomically caused anxieties of psychiatric disorders.
A rational method of production of medical reports in obstetrics is reported. The basis of this method is the approved computer guided system (DOKUMEDA) in clinics of radiology. Advantages and disadvantages of using are discussed.
The biosynthesis and processing of low molecular weight protein (presumed neurosecretory protein) in cells R15, R14 and L11 of Aplysia californica was studied at high resolution by polyacrylamide slab gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecylsulfate. The number of low molecular weight proteins detected in each cell ranges from 3 in R14 and L11 to 5 to 6 in R15. In each of the cells studied, the low molecular weight protein consists of a primary precursor of ca. 12,000 daltons, and its proteolytic processing products. In each cell, the smallest protein, or in the case of R14, one of the two smallest proteins, accumulates to a significant extent, suggesting that it might correspond to a final processed neurohormone. In cell R15, the biosynthesis of the primary precursor and its subsequent processing to smaller peptides is largely unaffected by removal of extracellular calcium, by replacement of calcium with cobalt or by inhibition of spontaneous bursting via stimulation of the brachial nerve.
[3H]Diazepam appears to bind specifically to a single, saturable, binding site located on rat brain membranes, with an affinity constant near 3 nM at pH 7.4. Specific binding constitutes more than 90% of total binding at 0 degrees and less than 10% of total binding at 37 degrees. Arrhenius plots suggest a sharp conformational change in the diazepam receptor near 18 degrees. Mitochondrial fractions from rat kidney, liver, and lung exhibit some [3H]diazepam binding that can be displaced by nonradioactive diazepam and several other benzodiazepines. However, Ro-4864, which is almost inactive in displacing [3H]diazepam from brain membranes, is extremely potent in displacing it from kidney mitochondria. Conversely, clonazepam, the most potent inhibitor of brain binding, is an extremely weak inhibitor of kidney binding. Furthermore, diazepam binding to kidney mitochondria has an affinity constantof 40 nM, about 15 times higher than that in brain. No specific diazepam binding was detected in intestine or skeletal muscle. Thus, specific [3H]diazepam binding to membranes appears to be restricted to brain, where it is unevenly distributed: the density of diazepam receptors is about five times higher in cortex (the highest density) than in pons-meddula (lowest density). Trypsin and chymotrypsin completely abolished specific [3H]diazepambinding in brain and kidney.
The low molecular weight proteins of rat apo HDL and apo VLDL have been isolated and analyzed by the technique of isoelectric focusing. Sephadex fractions from apo HDL (HS-3) and apo VLDL (VS-3) that contain these proteins reveal three major bands with apparent isoelectric points of pH 4.50, 4.67, and 4.74, as well as three minor bands at pH 4.43, 4.57, and 4.61. In addition, apo HDL has a major band at pI of 4.83. DEAE-Cellulose chromatography was used to prepare purified fractions of these components that were characterized by N-terminal analyses and molecular weight determinantions by SDS gel electrophoresis. The major low molecular weight components of apo HDL were focused on a slab gel and the bands were identified as A-II (pI 4.83), C-II (pI 4.74), C-III-0 (pI 4.67), and C-III-3 (pI 4.50). Neuraminidase treatment of apo HDL, followed by isoelectric focusing, suggested that the other bands, which have not previously been reported, may be additional forms of the C-III protein, differing only in their content of sialic acid.
A method to determine the serum concentration of the beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, nadolol, by GLC--selected ion monitoring mass spectrometry of the tri(trimethysilyl) ether derivative is described. A basic solution of serum was extracted, known amounts of internal standard were added to the extract, and the extract was back-extracted into acidic media and lyophilized. The resulting solids were reacted with N-trimethylsilylimidazole. Coded serum samples of 12 subjects, given nadolol alone or in combination with a second drug, were analyzed. The ions at m/e 86 and 100 were monitored to establish the relative concentration ratio of nadolol and the internal reference N-methylnadolol. No interferences from blood components or other administered drugs were observed. A detection level of 6.95 ng/ml of serum was found.
An investigation was made of the effects on some biochemical characteristics of human whole saliva and dental plaque resulting from the daily consumption of three commercial, acid-containing beverages. The beverages tested were a cola beverage ("Coca-Cola"), a carbonated orange drink ("Jaffa") and single strength orange juice. Each of the three test beverages as well as non-fluoridated tap water as a control, were consumed during four two-week periods. The test group consisted of 39 dental students. The mean consumption frequency lay in the range from 5.3 to 5.7 times per day. Orange juice was found to stimulate the salivary secretion rate most. All test drinks decreased the salivary pH immediately after consumption, but the pH did not generally drotase-like activity in oral fluid. Changes were observed in calcium, phosphate and fluoride concentrations in oral fluid samples, but these were due to variations in salivary secretion rate. A significant decrease in redox potentials of whole saliva was, however, observed after consumption of the drinks. The present results indicate that in healthy persons with normal saliva flow rate and buffer capacity the moderate consumption of acidic beverages failed to induce any remarkable caries-promoting changes in oral cavity. However, in persons with low salivary flow rate erosion may be a consequence of regular consumption.
Amino acid absorption was studied in chronic uremic rats. Intestinal transport of L-leucine appears to be inhibited with mild uremic intoxication, whereas severe uremia enhances absorption. Brush border activity of intestinal maltase and disaccharidases is higher in rats with chronic renal insufficiency. The same holds for gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase activity.
The activities of the enzymes aspartate transcarbamylase (ATCase) and dihydroorotase (DHOase) were determined in adult females from a wild-type strain and from eight different alleles of the X-linked mutation rudimentary (r) of Drosophila melanogaster. The alleles chosen span the genetic map of the r locus. The characteristics of the DHOase-catalyzed reaction which converts carbamyl aspartate to dehydroorotate are briefly described. Of all of the r strains tested, only one, r9, has wild-type levels of aspartate transcarbamylase and dihydroorotase activities. The other seven show either intermediate or very low levels of activity for both enzymes. The lowered ATCase and DHOase activities observed in mutants which do not map in the region of the structural gene for these enzymes are interpreted in light of recent evidence that ATCase and DHOase are part of a three-enzyme complex.
1. Retinol exerted a remarkable stimulating effect (approx. 260% increase), essentially similar to that (300%) of phytol, on the so-called esterase activity displayed by crude pancreatic lipase [EC 3.1.1.3] toward true solutions of esters, but none of the typical lipase activity toward emulsions of water-insoluble esters. 2. Comparison of the stimulatory effects of retinol derivatives on the esterase activity revealed that retinyl acetate was the most active, being sustantially similar in effect to retinol; retinal was fairly active, while retinoic acid, retinyl palmitate, and beta-ionone were far less active. 3. With various isoprenoid compounds, the efficiency of stimulation increased with the carbon chain length, attaining a maximum at 15 to 20 carbon atoms. Above this chain length the efficiency decreased rapidly. 4. Comparison of the effects of retinol and phytol on the esterase activity of various other lipolytic enzymes indicated that this kind of activator may be relatively specific to porcine pancreatic esterase activity.
A self-completion sleep evaluation questionnaire (SEQ), consisting of 10 cm line analogue rating scale questions, was constructed to investigate subjects' responses to aspects of sleep and early morning behaviour. The questions were grouped into 4 chronological areas: the ease of getting to sleep (GTS), the perceived quality of sleep (QOS), the ease of awakening from sleep (AFS), and the integrity of early morning behaviour following wakefulness (BFW). Five hundred and one SEQs were completed during several investigations into the comparative effectiveness of hypnotic drugs. The classical factor analysis produced 4 factors which corresponded to the 4 aspects of sleep and early morning behaviour listed above. The GTS and QOS factors were positively correlated (+0.57), as were the AFS and BFW factors (+0.48). The 2 sleeping state factors (GTS and QOS) were orthogonal to the 2 waking state factors (AFS and BFW).
Some of the recent concepts about the gastric mucosal defense mechanisms against damage by luminal acid and the effects of histamine and salicylate on these mechanisms are reviewed. The mucosal barrier to acid appears to consist of at least two physiologic components: a permeability mechanism and a metabolic mechanism related to cellular bicarbonate production as a result of acid secretion. In the absence of salicylate, histamine appears to exert some protection by affecting both mechanisms, but in the presence of salicylate, histamine's protective effect is limited to altering mucosal permeability. The actions of salicylate on the gastric mucosa are complex, related in part to the concentration of salicylate and the pH of the luminal fluid. The damaging effects of salicylate appear to be related more to the concentration of acid in the lumen than to the lipid solubility of the drug. Salicylate increases permeability regardless of pH; the increase is initially selective for cations and subsequently becomes nonselective, involving both cations and anions. Although both low and high concentrations of salicylate increase mucosal permeability to hydrogen ions, only high concentrations of salicylate affect cellular bicarbonate production.
Mycobacterium smegmatis cells incorporated [1-14C]oleic acid into triacylglycerols (TG) from the medium more rapidly than shorter chain fatty acids, caprilic and butyric acids. This incorporation was inhibited more strongly by 10(-3) M N-ethylmaleimide than by 10(-3) M KCN. [14C]TG in the bacterial cells was utilized when the cells were in poor nutritional conditions, such as phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing oleic acid. Accumulation of TG was observed in the cells at late stages of growth. Diglyceride acyltransferase [EC 2.3.1.20] activity was detected in a cell-free extract from this bacterium. The pH optimum of this enzyme was between pH 7 and 9. F- and Tween 20 showed remarkable enhancing and inhibitory effects, respectively.
This pilot study investigated epidemiologically the potential for clinically significant drug-drug interactions, a subclass of adverse drug responses, in two homes for the elderly. The agent (drugs), host (residents), and environment (rural and urban nursing homes) in the illness known as drug-drug interaction were studied. Drug profiles on 188 subjects were compiled and screened by computer. Of these, 100 (80 in the rural home and 20 in the urban home) had the potential for clinically significant drug-drug interactions. Laboratory diagnostic procedures essential to confirm the unintentional interaction of two or more drugs were beyond the scope of the study; therefore, physicians independently reviewed the records of 66 residents who could be interviewed, agreeing that 27 residents were potential drug-drug interactors. These subjects had twice as many drug products and three times as many pro re nata products prescribed for them as did subjects without the potential for drug-drug interaction. The possible cause of interaction found most frequently was digitalis combined with thiazide or furosemide. The results of this pilot study suggest several implications for practice within the research setting.
1. Under optimal ionic conditions (4 mM-MnCl2) the specific activity of guanylate cyclase in fresh platelet lysates was about 10nmol of cyclic GMP formed/20 min per mg of protein at 30 degrees C. Activity was 15% of optimum with 10mM-MgCl2 and negligible with 4mM-CaCl2. Synergism between MnCl2 and MgCl2 or CaCl2 was observed when [MnCl2] less than or equal to [GPT]. 2. Lower than optimal specific activities were obtained in assays containing large volumes of platelet lysate, owing to the presence of inhibitory factors that could be removed by ultrafiltration. Adenine nucleotides accounted for less than 50% of the inhibitory activity. 3. Preincubation of lysate for 1 h at 30 degrees C increased the specific activity of platelet guanylate cyclase by about 2-fold. 4. Lubrol PX (1%, w/v) stimulated guanylate cyclase activity by 3--5-fold before preincubation and by about 2-fold after preincubation. Triton X-100 was much less effective. 5. Dithiothreitol inhibited the guanylate cyclase activity of untreated, preincubated and Lubrol PX-treated lysates and prevented activation by preincubation provided that it was added beforehand. 6. Oleate stimulated guanylate cyclase activity 3--4-fold and arachidonate 2--3-fold, whereas palmitate was almost inactive. Pretreatment of lysate with indomethacin did not inhibit this effect of arachidonate. Oleate and arachidonate caused marked stimulation of guanylate cyclase in preincubated lysate, but inhibited the enzyme in Lubrol PX-treated lysate. 7. NaN3 (10mM) increased guanylate cyclase activity by up to 7-fold; this effect was both time- and temperature-dependent. NaN3 did not further activate the enzyme in Lubrol PX-treated lysate. 8. The results indicated that preincubation, Lubrol PX, fatty acids and NaN3 activated platelet guanylate cyclase by different mechanisms. 9. Platelet particulate fractions contained no guanylate cyclase activity detectable in the presence or absence of Lubrol PX that could not be accounted for by contaminating soluble enzyme, suggesting that physiological aggregating agents may increase cyclic GMP in intact platelets through the effects of intermediary factors. The activated and inhibited states of the enzyme described in the present paper may be relevant to the actions of these factors.
The biosynthesis of neutral lipids in Mycobacterium smegmatis was studied using cell free extracts. Maximum neutral lipid production was obtained when the reaction mixture (400 microliter) consisted of 0.25 M potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5), 0.125 mM oleoyl-CoA, 3.75 mM sn-glycerol-3-P, 10 mM MgCl2 and 1.85 mg bovine serum albumin. No magnesium dependency for the acylation of sn-glycerol-3-P was observed. A slight stabilizing effect seemed to occur due to this ion. The enzyme phosphatidate phosphohydrolase, on the other hand, was shown to be magnesium dependent. The activity of this enzyme also appeared to be stimulated by high concentration (0.75 to 1.25 mM) of ATP which enhanced lipid formation at all concentrations tested (0.25 to 3.75 mM). A heat-stable protective factor having a molecular weight less than 16 000 which caused a stimulatory effect on sn-glycerol 3-phosphate acyltransferase activity was found in the cell-free extracts. Preliminary experiments suggest that the factor might be polysaccharide in nature.
The sympatholyitic ornide and beta-adrenoblocking agent alpheprol were introduced intraperitoneally in single doses of 5 and 1 mg/kg, respectively to 7--30 day and 3--5-month old adult rats. The content of ATP, ADP, AMP, inorganic phosphorus glycogen and also active P32 incorporation were determined. The 7-day old rattlings are shown to be more sensitive to ornide than to alpheprol by comparison with older animals.
The effect of maternal hemorrhage in chronic preparations was studied on fetal lambs in the last month of gestation. Fourteen to 20 per cent of maternal blood was estimated to have been removed within 30 minutes, which resulted in a drop of 30 per cent of mean maternal arterial pressure. A fetal bradycardia started 28 +/- 13 minutes after the beginning of maternal hemorrhage. It lasted 30 +/- 15 minutes and was concomitant with a rise in fetal arterial pressure. It was followed by a long-lasting fetal tachycardia of 130 +/- 38 minutes and was corrected only by reinfusion of blood to the mother. The fetal blood gases demonstrated a mild asphyxia with a persistent metabolic acidemia until reinfusion of blood to the mother. Maternal and fetal plasma cortisol levels rose significantly at the end of the hemorrhage. Tracheal fluid flow did not change. Fetal breathing recorded 20 hours before and 24 hours after the experiment did not show consistent changes, but during fetal bradycardia there was no fetal breathing. Recent clinical investigations in this field have been made in the human fetus to estimate standards of fetal well being. These peculiar animal experiments do not show any significant improvement by recording fetal breathing over the recording of prelabor fetal heart rate.
The pH dependence of the apparent tetramer to dimer dissociation constant has been determined at 20 degrees for both oxy- and deoxyhemoglobins A and Kansas. These measurements were made by three different procedures: gel chromatography, sedimentation velocity, and kinetic methods in either of three buffer systems: 0.05 M cacodylate, Tris, or glycine with 1 mM EDTA and 0.1 M NaCl between pH 6.5 and 11. The tetramer-dimer dissociation constant of human oxyhemoglobin A decreases from about 3.2 X 10(-6) M at pH 6.0 to about 3.2 X 10(-8) M at pH 8.5. The slope of this line indicates that the dissociation of tetramer to dimer is accompanied by the uptake of about 0.6 protons per mol of tetramer in this region. The corresponding dissociation constant for deoxyhemoglobin in the same pH region increases apparently almost linearly from 1.0 x 10(-12) M at pH 6.5 to about 1.0 x 10(-5) M at pH 11. To dimer is associated with the release of about 1.6 protons per mol of tetramer. Comparison of these data with the known proton release accompanying the oxygenation of tetramers confirms that the pH dependence of oxygen binding by dimers must be very small. The present data predict that the overall proton release or uptake per oxygen bound by dimer should be less than 0.1. The tetramer-dimer dissociation equilibria of oxy- and deoxyhemoglobins above pH 8.5 have identical pH dependences. In this range the dissociation constant of deoxy-Hb is about one-tenth that of oxyhemoglobin. Human oxyhemoglobin Kansas is known to have an enhanced tetramer-dimer dissociation compared with that of hemoglobin A. Below pH 8.5 the tetramer-dimer dissociation constant of Hb Kansas is about 400 times greater than that of HbA in the absence of phosphate buffers. In contrast, the tetramer-dimer dissociation constants of deoxyhemoglobins A and Kansas appear to be identical. These findings are consistent with previous structural observations on these hemoglobins. The data on the tetramer-dimer dissociation of human hemoglobin were used to calculate the total free energy of binding of oxygen to the tetramer and the median oxygen pressure on the basis of fundamental linkage relations and a pH-independent estimate of the total free energy of binding oxygen to dimer. Simulated oxygen binding curves were generated with the equations of Ackers and Halvorson (Ackers, G. K., and Halvorson, H. (1974) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 71, 4312-4316) by making two assumptions: (a) that the dimers are noncooperative and pH-independent in O2 binding and (b) that the distribution of cooperative energy in the oxygenation of tetramers is independent of pH. We have compared these simulations with experimental data obtained at low protein concentrations (30 to 124 muM heme) to show that the variation in oxygen affinity with pH can be described in terms of the subunit equilibria. We conclude that an accurate analysis of the contributions of individual oxygen binding steps to the Bohr effect cannot be made without considering the contributions of the dimers to oxygen binding...
Droperidol premedication for children (0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg) was compared with pentobarbital and Dolosal--promethazine). Results are analyzed using criteria proposed by Burken and Nisbet. Droperidol compared very favourably with the order drugs. However a decrease in efficacy was noted with infants and neuw-born children, even with higher doses. The possible incidence it hypertonic seizures renders this drug unsuitable for ambulatory surgery.
Continuing our contributions on proteases of human placenta we enriched some unidentified neutral peptidases by chromatographying freeze dried placenta extracts on CM-Sephadex, followed by preparative isoelectric focusing and chromatography on Ultrogel. By this procedure two Acetyl-aminoacyl-p-nitranilidases, three Ala-Ala-p-nitranilidases, one Benzyloxycarbonyl-Ala-Ala-p-nitranilidase, one Carbobenzoxy-Gly-Pro-Arg-p-nitranilidase and one PZ-peptidase could be characterized in greater detail. Here molecular weights, isoelectric points and pH-optima of these enzymes are reported.
Selective angiography of the testicular artery was performed in 12 boys (age 3-14 yr) with nonpalpable testis. The angiographic, operative, and microscopic findings are described. True aplasia was diagnosed in seven patients. In three patients previously operated upon, the second exploration was facilitated by angiography. This method might be a valuable diagnostic aid in selected cases previously operated for gonadal disorders or inadequately explored for cryptorchism in order to avoid more extensive surgical exploration.
Activities of both non-enzymic (ascorbate-dependent) and enzymic NADPH-dependent) peroxidation of microsomal and mitochondrial phospholipids are found to be increased in rat liver during postnatal development. It is suggested, that microsomal NADPH-dependent phospholipid dioxygenase forming a chemical modification of membrane polyenic acyls, can be a factor regulating the activities of membrane-linked enzymes under normal physiological processes.
Intestinal absorption of [3H]phylloquinone was investigated in the unanesthetized rat by the use of a technique of recirculating perfused isolated intestinal segments. Apparent saturation kinetics were found as the concentration of the vitamin in the perfusate was increased in a stepwise fashion from 15 nM to 300 muM. Alkalinization of the perfusate or the addition of 2.5 mM linoleic acid to the perfusate caused a significant (P less than 0.05) decrease in the absorption rate of phylloquinone. Modifications in the perfusate concentration of sodium taurocholate, the substitution of a nonionic detergent (Pluronic F-68) for sodium taurocholate, the addition of medium- and long-chain saturated fatty acids, or the addition of vitamins K2 and K3 to the perfusate did not alter the absorption rate of the vitamin. Decreasing the thickness of the unstirred water layer by increasing the perfusion rate caused a significant increase in phylloquinone absorption rate. In vivo absorption of vitamin K1 appears to be mediated by an energy requiring saturable transport mechanism. The composition of the perfusate, its pH, and its rate of flow are all important determinants of vitamin K1 absorption rate.
The development of beta2-specific sympathomimetic bronchodilators (rimiterol, salbutamol, terbutaline) has made the basic treatment of asthmatic patients more safe and effective. Despite that, the asthmatics should be under careful control and all patients should be taught the correct way to use their bronchodilator aerosols. If a sympathomimetic drug has lost its effectiveness, the patient should be able to have easy contact to the treating physician or outpatient department.
The disposition of fazadinium was studied in 10 patients with normal hepatic and renal function undergoing abdominal surgery. The serum and urinary concentrations were determined fluorimetrically. A single dose of fazadinium 1.5 mg kg-1 was administered i.v. The plasma decay curve for fazadinium was found to be diphasic and the data were interpreted according to a two-compartment open model. The half-lives of the distribution and elimination phases were 12.3 and 76.4 min respectively. The total apparent volume of distribution averaged 234 ml kg-1 and the plasma clearance 132 ml min-1. From these results it is suggested that fazadinium should have a shorter duration of action than other non-depolarizing agents because of the more rapid decline of the serum concentration corresponding mainly to the short half-life of the beta phase. This rapid elimination phase of fazadinium did not correspond to an extensive biotransformation because fazadinium was excreted almost unchanged in the urine and this excretion accounted for 50% of the injected dose within 24 h.
Agarose is degraded by a beta-agarase from Pseudomonas atlantica to neoagarooligosaccharides of degree of polymerization (DP), 4, 6, 8, and 10. A beta-neoagarotetraose hydrolase cleaves the central beta-linkage in neoagarotetraose and the beta-linkage near the nonreducing end in neoagarohexaose and -octaose to yield neoagarobiose. The beta-neoagarotetraose hydrolase was localized on or outside the cytoplasmic membrane, in the cell wall region. The enzyme was activated by NaCl, KCl, CaCl2, MnCl2, and MgSO4, has a Km of 3.4 X 10(-3) M for neoagarotetraose, was free from beta-agarase and alpha-neoagarobiose hydrolase activity, and showed no transglycosidic activity.
The effect of preirradiated chlorpromazine (CPZ) solutions has been studied in vivo in the guinea pig and in vitro in a yeast culture. With intracutaneous administration of CPZ solutions preirradiated with long-wave ultraviolet radiation (UVA), an inflammatory response was attained equaling the response achieved when nonirradiated solutions were injected and the skin of the animals was subsequently irradiated with UVA. Preirradiated CPZ was not toxic to the yeast culture. During irradiation the pH of the CPZ solution changed, indicating an accumulation of acid photoproducts. Nonphototoxic phenothiazines and related tricyclic drugs failed to change their pH following irradiation whereas phototoxic compounds behaved like CPZ. The low pH alone could not account for the inflammatory response in vivo, as neutralized irradiated CPZ solutions still induced inflammation, and acidified, nonirradiated solutions failed to cause a reaction. CPZ phototoxicity seems mainly to be due to the effect of photoproducts. The nature of these is not known, but it is suggested that the stable free radical of CPZ might be an active principle.
We describe the reactions of three lipophilic, photoactivated cross-linking reagents, 1,5-diazidonapthalene, 4,4'-diazidobiphenyl, and the reversible 4,4'-dithiobisphenylazide, with erythrocyte membranes. Cross-linking occurs only upon photoactivation. At pH 7 to 8, only spectrin components are cross-linked by these reagents. At pH 5.0 to 5.5 several additional membrane proteins including the major "integral" membrane proteins are also cross-linked, despite equivalent binding of the cross-linkers at neutral and acid pH. The cross-linking rates of various membrane proteins at pH 5.0 to 5.5 depend distinctly upon duration of photoactivation. Bidimensional electrophoresis of membrane proteins after cross-linking with the reversible cross-linker, 4,4'-dithiobisphenylazide, has allowed for the identification of homopolymeric products of cross-linking (e.g. dimers and tetramers of Band 3) and heterocomplexes (spectrin plus other membrane proteins). The data suggest that at reduced pH, cross-linking can proceed not only at the membrane surface but also in the membrane core.
The amide content of neocarzinostatin (NCS), an antitumor protein, has been determined by analysing asparagine and glutamine in the Pronase-aminopeptidase M digests of tetra-S-carboxymethyl-NCS and carboxyl-modified NCS (modified with a water-soluble carbodiimide and [14C]glycine methyl ester). Preneocarzinostatin (PRE) was separated and purified from a crude NCS preparation by CM-cellulose column chromatography. PRE was found to contain one mole less asparagine than NCS, and asparagine was deamidated to aspartic acid in PRE. A time-dependent conversion of NCS to PRE at pH 3.2 at 4 degrees or in 0.1 M acetic acid at 26 degrees was studied in two ways; first, by quantitative determination of NCS and PRE by CM-cellulose column chromatography and second, by following the release of free NH3 during dialysis in an air-tight container. Within experimental error, PRE was indistinguishable from NCS in amino acid content after acid hydrolysis, as well as in apparent molecular weight as determined by SDS-disc gel electrophoresis (10% acrylamide), and N- and C-terminal amino acid residues. Both NCS and PRE shared a common antigenicity as determined by Ouchterlony's agar diffusion method. Only a slight difference between the two in electrophoresis on a cellulose acetate membrane and on a peptide map of the tryptic digest was demonstrated. PRE, however, was completely devoid of biological activity. In addition to the chromatographic difference, a conformational difference was observed by CD spectroscopy, namely, an apparently looser structure of PRE was indicated by the shallowness of the trough in the 240-265 nm region. This interpretation was supported by the finding that digestions by Pronase were more extensive with PRE than with NCS. These results indicate an important role of the single asparagine residue (Asn 83) of NCS in the biological activity, which is evidently governed by the conformation.
It is noted that rats with Heren carcinoma show alkalization of blood, decreased pH levels of the urine, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesiemia, sodium and water retention, increased kalium level in the liver. Analogous changes are observed in rabbits with Brown-Pearce carcinoma. The organism of tumor-bearing rats responds to stress effects otherwise than the organism of normal animals.
Germfree allogeneic bone marrow chimeras (ABMC) were produced by the i.v. injection of approximately 10(7) bone marrow cells from germfree DBA/2 mice into lethally irradiated germfree C3H mice. In the germfree state, the short-term ABMC showed no histologic signs of graft-vs-host reactions (GVHR), yet splenic lymphocytes were unable to respond to PHA, Con A, or SRBC. Attempts to remove responsiveness by the implantation of a DBA/2 thymus under the host kidney capsule also resulted in failure. However, when the donor thymus was enclosed in a cell-impermeable chamber to eliminate a GVH reaction, responsiveness to Con A was restored. The PHA and SRBC responses were unaffected by this treatment. Daily injections of thymosin caused both an increased Con A response and increased numbers of PFC, although the PHA response was again unaffected. Thus, soluble substances from thymic tissue can be used to overcome partially the histocompatibility barrier present in the ABMC that affects at least two different functional cell populations.
The zinc uptake in the dorsolateral prostate of rats was studied after different hormonal manipulations. Orchiectomy reduced the uptake of 65Zn. Administration of estradiol benzoate to orchiectomized rats doubled the 65Zn uptake, a phenomenon which was not observed in orchiectomized-adrenalectomized rats. Adrenalectomy in orchiectomized rats had no effect on the concentration of radioactivity beyond the castration-induced decrease. A prolactin release inhibitor, 6-methyl-8-erogelenylacetamide, reduced the radioactivity concentration without changing the weight of the gland. Cyproterone acetate reduced the weight but not the radioactivity concentration. The concentration of 65Zn in the ventral prostate was not changed by orchiectomy, adrenalectomy, or the administration of estradiol benzoate, prolactin release inhibiors, or cyproterone acetate. The results suggest an important role for prolactin in the zinc uptake in the dorsolateral prostate but not in the ventral prostate.
1450 random serum samples of domestic ruminants from Egypt, Somalia and Jordan were investigated for complement fixing antibodies against Rickettsia and Chlamydia. Between 1.5 and 3.4% of the samples from the animals investigated had antibodies against the RMSF-group of Rickettsia, with exception of the sera from Somalian cattle and sheep from Jordan. Antibodies against Rickettsia of the Typhus-group were found in 4 cattle and 1 goat from Jordan and 2 sheep from Egypt; by agglutination test with type-specific antigen they were identified as antibodies against R. typhi. Using 2 different antigens, antibodies against Coxiella burnetii were found in every population tested. The prevalence was 2.0 to 12.2%, with the exception of cattle in Somalia, where only 1 positive serum (0.2%) was found. 27% of the serum samples from Jordan and 22% from Egypt but none of the 802 samples from Somalia had antibodies against Chlamydia. The results are discussed under an epidemiological point of view.
Sixteen patients with increased intraocular pressure (over 20 mm Hg) received 25 and 50 mg of oral methazolamide, twice daily, during consecutive weeks and then 500 mg (Sequels) of acetazolamide. The two methazolamide regimens produced significant decreases in intraocular pressure. Acetazolamide treatment resulted in a greater decrease in intraocular pressure but more systemic acidosis and side effects.
Addition of NaHCO3 or NaOH to the solutions of lactic or pyruvic acids decreased threshold concentrations of H+ ions and increased intensity of afferent impulsation in the cat chroda tympani nerve. In spite of the fact that the concentrations of both lactate and pyruvate anions with the presence of NaOH and NaHCO3 are the same at equal pH values the observed changes of the receptors responses were more intensive if NaHCO3 had been added. Therefore the influence of NaHCO3 on the perception of organic acids depends not only on its buffer properties but, probably, on direct action of CO2 appearing as the result of interaction of NaHCO3 and acids, as well. This assumption was confirmed by the data on high sensitivity of the cat tongue receptors for the carbon dioxide.
Anaerobic glycolysis produces lactate, ATP, and water but there is no net change in the number of hydrogen ions: it does not produce lactic acid. The acidosis usually associated with hyperlactataemia is caused by hydrolysis of the ATP, with release of hydrogen ions. By contrast, ATP turnover by aerobic mechanisms is not acidifying because the released hydrogen ion is reutilised as more ATP is formed. Gluconeogenesis from lactate does not utilise hydrogen ions directly--in fact, it produces them. The associated net H+ utilisation is caused by the aerobic generation of the ATP and GTP required to drive glycolysis in reverse. It is suggested that only by understanding these important biochemical facts can the clinician found his diagnosis and treatment on a firm, rational basis.
Water samples were collected from breeding sites of species of the Simulium (Edwardsellum) damnoslm complex in Upper Volta, Liberia and Cameroon during the dry season; and in Tanzania and Kenya at various seasons during a period of two years. The following 20 factors were analysed at 45 breeding sites: water temperature, current velocity, pH value, conductivity free carbon dioxide, oxygen content, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, alkalinity, chloride, sulphate, nitrite, nitrate, ammonium, phosphate, silicate, total iron and organic substance (consumption of potassium permanganate). A number of notable differences in the chemical composition of the water of the breeding sites of 13 S. damnosum complex species were found, particularly with regard to the pH and conductivity. On the basis of these differences the various species can be divided into three main groups: Group I: 3 species (S. sanctipauli, S. yahense, "Menge"); breeding in sites with pH values always below 7 and conductivity values below 50 mumhos. Group II: 8 species (S. sirbanum, S. sudanense, S. damnosum s.s., S. squamosum, "Sanje", "Nkusi", "Nyamagasani", "Jovi"); breeding in watercourses with neutral, weakly acid or weakly alkaline reactions and conductivity values ranging from 50 to 150 mumhos. Group III: 2 species ("Kibwezi", "Kisiwani"); breeding in watercourses characterized by highly alkaline reactions with pH values between 7.7 and 10 and by conductivity values between 400 and 950 mumhos. The vectors of Onchocerca volvulus are included in group I and II only.
The influence of oxygenation level (oxyhaemoglobin saturation 0 or 100%) on the relationship between plasma pH and erythrocyte pH was studied, in vitro, in normal human blood submitted to changes in carbon dioxide tension. Firstly, the pH of both true and separated erythrolysates were compared: for the former, tonometry was carried out on whole blood, before red cells lysis; for the latter, equilibration was performed on erythrolysate, pH values appeared different: at PCO2 congruent to 21 and 38 Torr, separated erythrolysate was more alkaline than true one, and at PCO2 congruent to 0 it was more acid. Therefore, to estimate pHe-pHi relationship, pHi was evaluated on true erythrolysate. When haemoglobin passed from the reduced to the completely oxygenated state, a significant decrease of both pHe and pHi was observed for a given PCO2 (respectively about 0.05 and 0.08 pH unit), and of pHi for a given pHe (about 0.04 pH unit). In either extra or intraerythrocyte fluid, the oxygen-linked pH difference was  negatively correlated to PCO2.
The routine bacteriological test of expectorate, except for mycobacteria, is usually unsatisfactory. There is a need of standardization which results in the present paper from a comparison between the data obtained by two different laboratories on the same samples. It is possible to achieve reasonable and uniform results establishing a uniformity of some procedures, namely; collection of specimens, homogenization, number and type of media, interpretation of data and so on.
To study the mode of action of oestrogen in female sexual maturation, prepubertal female rats were treated in different ways with oestradiol benzoate (OB). Using an improved implantation method, former findings on a hypophysial site of oestrogen action in the positive feedback (Hohlweg effect) were confirmed. A single s.c. injection or intrahypophysial implantation of OB at 25 or 26 days of age induced precocious vaginal opening (VO) and one ovulation, but the subsequent ovarian cycle was significantly prolonged, so that the first spontaneous ovulation occurred only at the normal time of the onset of puberty. Further studies demonstrated that the sensitivity to the ovulation-inducing effect of oestrogen increases as the rats approach the age of puberty, and that the first pubertal ovulation can be suppressed by intrahypophysial, but not by intrahypothalamic implantation of progestereone. The conclusion is drawn that the precocious induction of one ovulation via the Hohlweg effect is not tantamount to an advancement of puberty. The results furthermore suggest that the positive oestrogen feedback forms the basis for the first pubertal ovulation as it does with regard to later cyclic ovulations. True acceleration of sexual maturation was achieved by daily injections of 0,05 microgram OB/100 g b.w. from 5 days of age to VO. In contrast to findings obtained by other authors in Sprague-Dawley rats, a shortened OB treatment from 26 days of age to VO was not effective in advancing the onset of puberty unless the rats had additionally been injected with OB from 5 to 10 days of age. A final experiment demonstrated that the first ovarian cycle was not prolonged after neonatal ovariectomy and implantation of ovaries at 24, 28 or 32 days of age. Thus, maturation of the neurohormonal mechanisms that are responsible for the cyclic ovarian function continues during the prepubertal development in the absence of ovarian steroids.
Ribonuclease A has been guanidinated at the lysine residues and the nona-guanidinated and deca-guanidinated (fully substituted) products separated. In confirmation of an earlier report by Glick and Barnard (1970), it has been shown by chemical procedures that the former derivative is not reacted at lysine-41. Guanidination of lysine-41 to produce the fully substituted product causes loss of enzymic activity without any apparent change of conformation, as tested by conformational comparisons (using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy) including (a) difference spectroscopy, evidence for the involvement of lysine-41 in a catalytic role in the enzyme. Dimethylation of lysine-41 of nona-guanidinated ribonuclease A produces sharp proton resonances which shifts as the dimethylamino group is titrated and allow the determination of an apparent pK of 8.8 for unsubstituted lysine-41.
The occurrence of thrombosis and phlebitis after intravenous injection of 10 mg diazepam, 4 mg lorazepam, or 1-2 mg flunitrazepam was studied on the second or third and the seventh to 10th days. A significantly higher incidence occurred with all drugs on days 7 to 10 than on days 2 and 3. Painless thrombosis occurred much more often with diazepam than with the other two benzodiazepines. Its incidence was greater in small hand or arm veins than in large antecubital vessels. Lorazepam and flunitrazepam therefore have clear advantages over diazepam.
A marked loss in potency was observed when cephalothin was incubated for 5 h in human serum at 37 degrees C. Cefazolin was stable under these conditions.
pH, the symbol for "hydrogen-ion concentration", is a series of dimensionless "units" that have only general significance. The author shows that, when considered on the basis of the relationship to oxidation-reduction, the relative significance of any pair of coordinates becomes more significant. However, the theoretical relationship as currently accepted by the Nernst equation, i.e. a shift of 59.1 milivolts for each shift of 1.0 pH, does not apply to macromolecular systems, such as in vivo. The author solved this difficulty by plotting the corrdinates graphically by bisecting pH relationships at 7.0 and oxidation-reduction relationships at Eh 0.0 milivolts, forming four quadrants. With this scheme the significance of any pair of coordinates can be readily recognized. The application of this method to biology and medicine is shown in the companion paper "pH and Eh relationships in the body".
2-2'Pyridylisatogen tosylate (PIT), which antagonizes the inhibitory action of ATP in the taenia caeci, did not antagonize the excitatory effects of exogenous ATP and of purinergic stimulation of the terminal guinea-pig ileum. PIT (0-5--2-5 muM) potentiated the ATP-induced contractions and also the contractions produced by potassium chloride, though the potentiation could not be related to the dose in every experiment. The responses to noradrenaline, adrenaline and histamine were slightly inhibited. PIT also potentiated the contractions produced by electrical stimulation of intramural purinergic nerves when either an alternate or uniform stimulation pattern was used. The present results in which the preparation is contracted by ATP are opposite to those obtained with PIT on the taenia caeci, which is relaxed by ATP. This raises a question of duality or plurality of receptors for ATP.
The alkaloid 13-hydroxylupanine-2-pyrrolcarbonic acid ester (Hoe 933) from the Madagascan plant Cadia ellisiana has an hypotensive and antiarrhythmic effect. The hypotensive effect in dogs, monkeys, and rats anaesthetized with barbiturates reaches its maximum with 0.2 mg/kg i.v. However, the hypotensive effect is much weaker in conscious animals. The enteral absorption in the dog is good; an intraduodenal dose of only 0.5 mg/kg lowered the blood pressure. In the isolated rabbit heart whose accelerator nerves were intact, the perfusion with concentrations of 0.6 mug/min Hoe 933 (total dose 6 mug) decreased the release of norepinephrine from the nerve endings, reduced the positive inotropic effect, and diminished the increase in heart rate produced by electrical stimulation of the accelerator nerve. The effect of the stimulation of the accelerator nerve on dp/dt in dogs in situ was considerably diminished by such low doses as 10 and 25 mug/kg i.v. Consequently, the alkaloid inhibits sympathetic impulse transmission. Sympathetic circulatory reflexes are weakened by the compound. The alkaloid has also a ganglionic blocking effect, which is demonstrated on the upper cervical ganglion of the cat. The effect of preganglionic stimulation of the nictitating membrane was reduced with 200 mug Hoe 933/kg i.v. In the isolated guinea pig heart the effect of nicotine on heart rate and contraction was diminished. In this respect the ganglion blocker pentolinium is 8 times more active. The antifibrillatory effect of Hoe 933 was demonstrated with 0.3 mg/kg i.v. in supercooled cats, the antiarrhythmic activity was evident with 0.5 mg/kg i.v. in dogs intoxicated with K-strophanthin. In isolated hearts of guinea pigs, a dose of only 6 mug/heart inhibited ventricular fibrillation induced by aconitine and digitoxin. Even the toxicity of digoxin was diminished by previous administration of 300 mug/kg i.v. The relative refractory period and the duration of the action potential were prolonged in the isolated papillary muscle of the guinea pig heart.
We reviewed 13 cases of testicular tumors arising in cryptorchid, intra-abdominal testes. All types of germinal neoplasms were found, seminoma being the most common. Of the 13 patients 5 had undergone limited exploration previously, with no testis being identified and, thus, were thought to have had unilateral anorchism. The importance of a thorough exploration of the peritoneal cavity is emphasized.
From the array of sterilization procedures that are safe, simple and effective, the service provider must select procedures that fit his or her logistical criteria, which include the cost and maintenance of equipment, availability of supplies, and training of the requisite personnel. In this paper, these criteria are discussed for each of the various sterilization procedures. Information about female sterilization equipment for conventional postpartum laparotomy, minilaparotomy, colpotomy, laparoscopy, and culdoscopy is presented, together with facts about the related tubal occlusion techniques. The standard ligation techniques for male sterilization are compared with the newer electrocoagulation and thermocoagulation methods. A variety of methods for both female and male sterilization that are in the research stage are also mentioned. It is concluded that, from a programmatic point of view, vasectomy and postpartum ligation via laparotomy are the optimal sterilization procedures. For women who have not recently been pregnant, minilaparotomy with a standard tubal ligation technique is recommended, except in large teaching hospitals where laparoscopy can be performed efficiently.
The antihypertensive effect of intravenous (acute) and oral (long-term) beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol or pindolol was evaluated in 46 male patients with either borderline (group I; 23 patients) or sustained (group II; 23 patients) essential hypertension. Arterial pressure, plasma renin activity and plasma concentration of aldosterone were determined during continuous recumbency overnight every 30 minutes before and after treatment. Patients of group I exhibited a marked variation of their recumbent plasma renin activity with relatively low values before midnight and large increases early in the morning. In contrast, low plasma renin activity values and only minimal fluctuations in renin were observed in patients of group II. Plasma renin activity had a consistent relationship with blood pressure both after acute (r = 0.79) and long-term (r = 0.4) beta-blockade. In four patients of group I, who had high plasma renin activity and had responded to intravenous propranolol, infusion of angiotensin II inhibitor did not lower pressure. In group I following beta-blockade, day-night profiles of renin were similar to those observed in group II before treatment. Thus in this latter subgroup, low renin profiles might reflect reduced beta-adrenergic activity. Acute as well as long-term beta-blockade consistently eliminated the day-night rhythm of plasma renin activity, but it did not change rhythm of plasma concentration of aldosterone. Plasma concentration of aldosterone was lower in group II but appeared to be inappropriately high relative to renin levels. These observations suggest that in hypertensive patients classified according to blood pressure and recumbent plasma renin activity profiles a significant relationship exists between changes in plasma renin activity and arterial pressure responses. Thus, patients with high renin levels respond better to treatment than patients with low renin levels. We conclude that in the patients studied, sympathetic nervous system activity mainly determined renin levels as well as antihypertensive effectiveness of the beta-blocking drugs.
Renal tubular and glomerular functions were evaluated in 35 consecutive patients with multiple myeloma and were correlated with changes in renal histopathology and myeloma protein patterns. All nine patients without Bence Jones proteinuria had CCr greater than 50 ml/min. In contrast 16/26 patients with Bence Jones proteinuria had CCr less than 50 ml/min and the magnitude of the Bence Jones proteinuria correlated well with the degree of renal insufficiency. Frequent abnormalities in renal tubular acidifying and concentrating ability were observed only in patients with Bence Jones proteinuria and occurred in the absence of significant reductions of glomerular filtration rate. Severely deranged renal histology was seen only in patients with Bence Jones proteinuria and consisted primarily of tubular atrophy and degeneration; glomeruli appeared normal. These data suggest that Bence Jones proteins exert a direct nephrotoxic effect at the tubular level with resultant tubular dysfunction and tubular atrophy. Glomerular filtration rate remains relatively preserved despite the significant abnormalities of tubular function. Although obstructing tubular casts were observed only in patients with severely impaired glomerular filtration rate, many patients with similarly impaired renal function had no evidence of such casts. Instead, tubular atrophy and degeneration correlated best with renal dysfunction.
The influence of heparin on the graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR) and the peculiarities attending the development of pregnancy in female animals which survived after the GVHR were studied. Preliminary administration of heparin to the recipients prevented their death or increased their life span. An intensification of the GVHR was noted after the administration of heparin to donors or its addition to the transplanted cells. In mice which survived after the GVHR as a result of heparin administration the intrauterine fetuses death and abortions were noted in 60-100% of cases during subsequent pregnancy (3 to 6 months after the cell transplantation). In the case of repeated pregnancies of these female animal pathology of pregnancy was less frequent; however, some of the offspring displayed the rant syndrome. No such disturbances of pregnancy were observed in mice given heparin alone or in those which survived after the transplantation of lymphoid cells only. The sustained pregnancy promoted the intensification of the GVHR induced in the female animals earlier after the heparin administration.
Transport of glutamine by the high-affinity transport system is regulated by the nitrogen status of the medium. With high concentrations of ammonia, transport is repressed; whereas with Casamino acids, transport is elevated, showing behaviour similar to glutamine synthetase. A glutamine auxotroph, lacking glutamine synthetase activity, had elevated transport activity even in the presence of high concentrations of ammonia (and glutamine). This suggests that glutamine synthetase is involved in the regulation of the transport system. A mutant with low glutamate synthase activity had low glutamine transport and glutamine synthetase activities, which could not be derepressed. A mutant in the high-affinity glutamine transport system showed normal regulation of glutamate synthase and glutamine synthetase. Possible mechanisms for this regulation are discussed.
The effect of EDTA-decalcification, reactivating and activating procedures on the hydrolysis of ATP was studied histochemically in developing dental tissues in the rat. The incubation media contained lead citrate at alkaline pH and lead nitrate at neutral pH, and the results with ATP as substrate were compared with those obtained with beta-glycerophosphate. The ion dependency of ATP hydrolysis could only be ascertained in decalcified sections. As in earlier studies on the hydrolysis of beta-glycerophosphate in dental tissues, this hydrolysis could readily be reactivated through preincubation of the sections in a series of 0.1 M solutions of divalent cations; Zn2+ being the most efficient. This treatment was now found also to give rise to an ATP hydrolysis, which occurred without the need for activating ions in the incubation medium. This ATP hydrolysis should thus be described as nonspecific and, in terms of ion dependency, as due to a metalloenzyme, i.e. alkaline phosphatase. Activating ion dependent ATP hydrolysis in the dental tissues was found in the blood vessels and in the apical part of the secretory ameloblasts. The former was activated by Mg2+, Ca2+ and Mn2+, and the latter by Ca2+ and--almost specifically--by Sr2+. Preincubation with Zn2+ always inhibited the ion dependant ATP hydrolysis in the dental tissues.
The initial period of no-flow anoxia can be divided in at least two parts. During the first period lasting approximately 1 min., the O2 available in tissue gives rise to CO2 which increases hydrogen ion activity and may lead to Na+ influx2 (presumably due to increased  membrane permeability to Na+). In the second period, starting after the first minute, the increase in lactate content leads to further decrease in pH and is accompanied by extensive sodium influx and a distinct potassium efflux. However, it is striking that the isolated perfused rat liver is able to tolerate 1 hour of norm-flow anoxia without severe cellular damage, whereas two minutes of no-flow anoxia lead to a decrease in cellular ATP content by 28%.
Isoprenaline dose-response curves plotting increases in heart rate before and after labetalol are suggestive of competitive antagonism at beta-adrenoceptor sites. Phenylephrine dose-response curves using increases in systolic pressure before and after labetalol are suggestive of competitive antagonism at alpha-adrenoceptor sites. The ratio of alpha:beta-adrenoceptor antagonism induced by labetalol is approximately 1:3. Peak pharmacological responses after a single oral dose of labetalol (400 mg) occurred between 90-120 min after administration.
A homgenate of Saccharomyces cerevisiae grown under semi-anaerobic as well as aerobic conditions was found to catalyze the hydrolysis of fatty acid esters of sterols in the presence of Triton X-100. The enzyme levels in cells grown under various conditions were similar and the enzyme had a broad substrate specificity for sterol esters. The enzyme was localized in the mitochondrial fraction for the aerobically grown cells and in the mitochondrial and cytosolic fractions for the semi-anaerobically grown cells.
Hemodilution during E.C.C. is into use for more than 15 years. Its interest is obvious (blood economy, beneficient action on viscosity, prevention of "sludging"), but opinions are different concerning the best level of hemodiultion. The authors defend the notion of a moderate dilution (hematocrit larger than or equal to 25 p. 100) required to maintain a high perfusion pressure. For atherosclerotic patients, they describe the hemodilution technics tried on more than 4,000 cases since 1964. The advantages of hemodilution concern on one hand the diminution or the disparition of drawbacks and complications due to the obtainment and to the administration of homologous blood and on the other hand the beneficient intrinsical effects of the blood dilution on the tissular perfusion. In convenients are those due to changes in the concentration of sodium, chlore and specially potassium which may be responsible of serious cardiac arrythmias. Because of increasing difficulties concerning the use of homologous blood (obtaining difficulties and complications relative to its use), the authors consider the utilization of autologous blood taken off before the operation on the patient and freezed.
On day old male mice received a single injection of oestradiol benzoate, testosterone propionate or cyproterone acetate in order to study their action on testicular development, particularly testosterone secretion. Oestrogenization of newborn males leads, when the animals mature, to a high proportion or cryptorchidism, to atrophy of testes and seminal vesicles, and inhibition of spermatogenesis. Testosterone levels were reduced in the plasma. Testosterone propionate produced moderate reduction of testicular weight but spermatogenesis was not impaired. Plasma testosterone level was reduced. Cyproterone acetate increased significantly testicular testosterone level.
Enzyme membranes can be activated or inhibited by applying continuous or alternating electrical fields. The field can modify the transport or reaction term of the transport-reaction by action on the displacement of charged species including those giving pH effects or inducing volume flows. A first experimental example is given: the progressive supression of the inhibition of hexokinase by the product when increasing alternating fields are applied. In the same way the apparent optimal pH approaches that of the soluble enzyme. In addition to its theoretical and practical implications electrical regulation can lead to the monitoring of enzyme reaction-driven mechanochemical fibers.
The total, free and unprecipitated activity of lysosomal (acid DNAase, acid RNAase, acid phosphate, acid beta-galactosidase) and peroxisomal (catalase, oxidase of D-amino acids) enzymes were studied in dog kidney cortex during storage of the tissues in solution of rheopolyglucin and under conservation of the kidney tissue by transrenal gas perfusion in hypothermia within 3 and 7 days. Labilization of lysosomal and peroxisomal membranes was observed during storage both in unperfused and in oxygenated kidney. Mechanisms of formation and functional significance of the alterations observed in structure of lysosomes and peroxisomes are discussed.
Differentially labelled 35S-thiosulphate was taken up by washed cells of Thiobacillus ferrooxidans which were previously grown on thiosulphate. The uptake was proportional to the biomass over the range 0.5-4.0 mg dry wt. of bacteria and showed typical saturation kinetics with an estimated Km value of 0.5 mM for 35S-thiosulphate. Dithionate and Group VI anions inhibited the uptake, which was under pH control and had a temperature optimum of 50 degrees C. In the absence of thiosulphate, the cells bound 35S-sulphate but the binding did not increase on prolonged incubation and the label could be removed completely by washing with dilute sulphuric acid. Increasing amounts of the label were incorporated from [outer-35S]thiosulphate into cellular materials over a 60-min period, whereas little or no assimilation was observed from either the [inner-35S]thiosulphate or 35S-sulphate. The kinetic properties of the sulphate-activating enzyme ATP-sulphurylase enriched from bacteria grown with either thiosulphate or ferrous-iron were similar although this enzyme has an assimilatory function only when the bacterium is grown with ferrous-iron.
Five to six millions of hypertensives live in the Federal Republic of Germany. Of these, about 70% are known to be hypertensives but only 30% are consistently treated. It is therefore not surprising that hypertension is one of the most common risk factors in patients who have to be operatively treated. The commonly approved principles of hypertensive therapy are compiled in the present study and classified with reference to the multivarious pathophysiological processes. In particular, special anesthesiologic problems are dealt with in detail. Furthermore, this paper provides the basic knowledge of the artificial fall in blood pressure under anesthetic conditions.
The sedative and antihistamine effects of diphenhydramine were assessed in relation to plasma concentration after placebo, diphenhydramine 50 mg intravenously, and diphenhydramine 50 mg orally to each of 6 healthy volunteers on three separate occasions. Diphenhydramine plasma elimination t1/2 was 3.0 to 4.3 hr, volume of distribution was 188 to 336 L, and clearance was 637 to 1,014 ml/min. Systemic bioavailability of the oral preparation ranged from 0.26 to 0.60. The sedative effect of intravenous diphenhydramine differed from that of placebo only during the first 3 hr. Antihistamine effect, as measured by reduction of histamine provoked skin wheal diameter, was significantly different from that of placebo for at least 8 hr. There was a positive correlation between plasma diphenhydramine level and sedative and antihistamine effects, but wide variation in the extent and rate of change of these effects were observed between the subject. There appears to be a concentration range of 25 to 50 ng/ml, within which there is significant antihistamine effect without significant sedation.
Under the action of acid media the hemopexin molecule unfolds with resulting heme expulsion from the binding site, followed by heme dimerization and reassociation of dimeric heme with the unfolded protein molecule. The rate of the reaction is pH dependent and the whole process is fully reversible for a certain time interval. Prolonged treatment of hemopexin at acidic conditions, however, leads to the irreversible denaturation of this protein.
Five clones of mouse neuroblastoma cells able to grow in hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine containing medium were isolated from a hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRT; EC 2.4.2.8; IMP: pyrophosphate phosphoribosyltransferase) deficient cell line. These hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine resistant revertant clone had 45-55% of wild-type cell HGPRT activity. Kinetic studies indicated that the HGPRT in revertant clones had a reduced maximal velocity as compared to wild type cells based on cell protein. Apparent Km values of HGPRT for hypoxanthine and 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate were similar in wild-type and revertant cells. Heat inactivation studies demonstrated a similar heat lability for HGPRT in revertant and wild-type cells. An antibody fraction prepared from serum of rabbits immunized with HGPRT partially purified from mouse liver was used to measure the amount of cross-reacting material in normal and revertant clones. The revertant clones had one-half the amounth of cross-reacting material present in wild-type cells, based on a given amount of cell protein. These data indicate that the revertant cells may contain fewer HGPRT molecules with unaltered catalytic activity.
In order to label phosphate binding sites, unadenylylated glutamine synthetase from Escherichia coli has been pyridoxylated by reacting the enzyme with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate followed by reduction of the Schiff base with NaBH4. A complete loss in Mg2+-supported activity is associated with the incorporation of 3 eq of pyridoxal-P/subunit of the dodecamer. At this extent of modification, however, the pyridoxylated enzyme exhibits substantial Mn2+-supported activity (with increased Km values for ATP and ADP). The sites of pyridoxylation appear to have equal affinities for pyridoxal-P and to be at the enzyme surface, freely accessible to solvent. At least one of the three covalently bound pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate groups is near the subunit catalytic site and acts as a spectral probe for the interactions of the manganese.enzyme with substrates. A spectral perturbation of covalently attached pyridoxamine-P groups is caused also by specific divalent cations (Mn2+, Mg2+ or Ca2+) binding at the subunit catalytic site (but not while binding to the subunit high affinity, activating Me2+ site). In addition, the feedback inhibitors, AMP, CTP, L-tryptophan, L-alanine, and carbamyl phosphate, perturb protein-bound pyridoxamine-P groups. The spectral perturbations produced by substrate and inhibitor binding are pH-dependent and different in magnitude and maximum wavelength. Adenylylation sites are not major sites of pyridoxylation.
The alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex of Acetobacter xylinum was purified to homogeneity. It consists of three main polypeptide chains with a total molecular weight of about 2.4 X 10(6). It catalyzes the overall Mg2+ and thiamin pyrophosphate-dependent, NAD+- and CoA-linked oxidative decarboxylation of alpha-ketoglutarate, as well as the partial reactions characteristic of the three enzyme components described for the complex from other sources. Initial velocity studies revealed marked positive cooperativity for the substrate alpha-ketoglutarate (Hill coefficient (nH) = 2.0; concentration of ligand at half-maximum effect (S0.5) = 8 mM). The sigmoidal [alpha-ketoglutarate]-velocity relationship became hyperbolic upon addition of AMP or 3-acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide (AcPyAD) or in the presence of high concentrations of NAD. S0.5 (alpha-ketoglutarate) decreased to 1 mM, but Vmax was unchanged. Saturation curves for NAD and AMP are sigmoidal (nH = 2) at low alpha-ketoglutarate concentrations and become hyperbolic at high alpha-ketoglutarate concentrations. As judged by S0.5, the relative efficiency of the allosteric effectors is AcPyAD greater than AMP greater than alpha-ketoglutarate- greater than NAD+. Half-maximal changes in nH, S0.5, and activation by AMP occur at a pH significantly different from that of half-maximal activity. A model for the allosteric behavior of the complex is proposed in which the first enzyme component of the complex (E1) is the site for the allosteric interactions and AMP is the primary positive modifier, whereas NAD and AcPyAD act as AMP analogues. The overall reaction is competitively inhibited by NADH with respect to NAD (K1 = 20 micronM) and by succinyl-CoA with respect of CoA (K1 = 3 micronM). The properties of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex of A. xylinum appear to provide for appropriate partitioning of alpha-ketoglutarate carbon between competing pathways in response to the energy state of the cells.
The laparoscopic demonstration of a patent tube usually excludes the present of a tubal pregnancy. In the reported case tubal pregnancy was suspected. Tubal patency was tested because of equivocal laparoscopic findings, and an unexpected tubal pregnancy was diagnosed in the presence of tubal patency.
The effects of pH, acetimidate concentration, temperature, and reaction time of methyl acetimidate with sperm whale myoglobulin have been assessed. Reaction at pH 9.8 and 15 degrees C for 30 min with a sixfold excess of methyl acetimidate relative to each amino group yielded six acetimidomyoglobin derivatives which were separated and purified. Reaction with tetrahydrophthalic anhydride revealed the number of amino groups that remained unreacted in each separated component and made possible further subractionation. Modification at the NH2 terminus was quantitated by automated stepwise Edman degradation. The acetimidyl and tetrahydrophthalyl groups, were readily removable. The potentiometric titration of three of the completely deprotected components showed identity with the parent untreated sperm whale myoglobin. The first of two major products was acetimidated at all 19 epsilon-amino groups but not at the NH2 terminus. The second major product bore a blocked NH2 terminus but retained one unmodified epsilon-amino group, identified after modification by trinitrobenzenesulfonate as lysine residue 77. Of the minor components, one was identified as completely acetimidated at all 20 amino groups. The other three minor components appeared to contain irreversible by-products.
A study is reported of the brain glycoproteins and the glycosaminoglycans in a case of infantile metachromatic leucodystrophy, associated with a ponto-cerebellar systemic atrophy, verified by autopsy. The glycosaminoglycan concentrations in the grey matter were within the normal range, while in the white matter they were slightly increased. The glycopeptides from the soluble and insoluble glycoproteins of white matter were altered not only in their quantity but also in their composition. In the grey matter a decrease of all sugars except the NaNa was detected in the insoluble fraction while in the soluble no change was detected, except for a threefold increase of fucose. The relationship was discussed of soluble to insoluble glycoproteins, and a mechanism for their derangement in MLD was suggested.
The development and evaluation of methods for the quantitative recovery of enteroviruses from sewage sludge are reported. Activated sewage sludge solids were collected by centrifugation, and elution of the solid-associated virus was accomplished by mechanical agitation in glycine buffer at pH 11.0. Eluted viruses were concentrated either onto an aluminum hydroxide floc or by association with a floc which formed de novo upon adjustment of the glycine eluate to pH 3.5. Viruses which remained in the liquid phase after lowering the pH of glycine eluate were concentrated by adsorption to and elution from membrane filters. The method of choice included high pH glycine elution and subsequent low pH concentration; it yielded an efficiency of recovery from activated sludge of 80% for poliovirus type 1, 68% for echovirus type 7, and 75% for coxsackievirus B3. This method was used to study the survival of naturally occurring virus in sludge at a sewage treatment plant and after subsequent land disposal of the solids after aerobic digestion. Reduction of enterovirus titers per gram (dry weight) of solids were modest during sludge activation but increased to a rate of 2 log 10/week after land disposal.
Catecholamines possessing alpha adrenergic receptor agonist properties induce lightening or reverse melanocyte stimulating hormone darkening of frog skin in vitro. The capacity to activate this alpha receptor by the methyldopa metabolites methyldopamine and methylnorepinephrine was compared with the capacity of the naturally occurring dopa metabolites, dopamine and norepinephrine. Melanocyte stimulating hormone-induced darkening or dispersion of the granules was reversed by each of these metabolites. Methylnorepinephrine was 10 times as potent as norepinephrine, and methyldopamine was 30- to 100-fold more potent than the naturally occurring dopamine. These inhibitory effects on melanocyte stimulating hormone could be blocked or partially impaired using the alpha adrenergic blocker, phentolamine. They were not affected by pretreatment of frogs with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor pheniprazine (Catron) nor by the application of pheniprazine, angiotensin or serotonin in vitro. This neuroendocrine model has alpha adrenergic receptor relationships analogous to those described in the central nervous system for methyldopa metabolites.
Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) activity in serum, DBH and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activities in mesenteric vessels, and DBH and TH activities in locus coeruleus and hypothalamus of brain did not differ significantly between spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKR) at 16 weeks of age when hypertension of SHR was fixed. In contrast, DBH and TH activities in vas deferens and adrenal glands were significantly higher in SHR than in WKR. These changes in SHR at 16 weeks of age after establishment of hypertension are directly opposite those reported previously in SHR at 3 weeks of age before the onset of hypertension.
The first step in the biosynthesis of glutathione is the formation of gamma-glutamyl-cysteine by the enzyme glutamyl-cysteine synthetase. Since this enzyme is not specific for cysteine, different gamma-glutamylamino acids may be formed in vivo which represent potential substrates for the enzymes gamma-glutamylcyclotransferase; in this way 5-oxo-L-proline and free amino acid are formed. We investigated in membrane-free hemolysate the competition between the biosynthesis of glutathione or ophthalmic acid and the degradation of gamma-glutamyl peptides by measuring the formation of 5-oxoproline. The endogenous rate of 5-oxoproline production was 0.13 muM/min. This increased to 2muM/min after addition of 2-aminobutyrate, and to 10muM/min after addition of glutamate and 2-aminobutyrate to hemolysate. Addition of cysteine resulted in an increased oxoproline production only under conditions where glutamyl-cysteine accumulated. In addition, it was shown that for glutamyl-2-aminobutyrate the degradation to 5-oxoproline is faster than the utilization for the tripeptide synthesis. This was not the case for glutamyl-cysteine. Since membrane-free hemolysate (which lacks gamma-glutamyltransferase) is able to produce 5-oxoproline starting from glutamate, it is concluded that this 5-oxoprolinent amino acid transport via a modified gamma-glutamyl cycle.
The author examined the action of haloperidol and magetyl on the mitotic activity, blast transformation and karyotype of the lymphocytic cultures, obtained from the peripheral blood in vitro. The experiments were carried out on flymphycytes, obtained from ten healthy individuals. Nontreated cultures, obtained from the same cultures, were used as controls. The following concentrations were used: haloperidol--0.1 mkg/ml, 10 mkg/ml and 10.0 mkg/ml; mageptyl--2.0 mkg/ml, 10,0 mkg/ml and 50 mkg/ml. There was a significant inhibition of the mitotic and blast transformation index after using concentrations of 10.0 mkg/ml both of haloperidol and magentyl. Concentration of 50.0 mkg/ml was toxic for the lymphocytes, obtaine from all donors. Furthermore the two preparations did not induce genomic mutations. Polyploidia, established in the treated cultures, varied slightly from that of the nontreated cultures. There was a weak mutagenic activity of the two preparations at chromosomal level in a concentration of 10.0 mkg/ml.
Previous observations have pointed out that treatment with amphetamine during pregnancy produces behavioral modifications in adulthood. In order to elucidate some possible brain biochemical mechanisms that could explain the behavioral changes observed we have determined the endogenous content of brain dopamine and noradrenaline, the in vivo rate of conversion of tyrosine-C14 in such amines and the activity of tyrosine-hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in catecholamines biosynthesis. We did not observe modifications in the endogenous content of dopamine and noradrenaline but did observe an increase in the conversion rate of tyrosine-C14 in such amines and also in the tyrosine-hydroxylase activity. These results indicate that treatment with amphetamines during fetal age produces catecholamine metabolism modifications that persist throughout adulthood, although the influence of behavioral modifications of the mothers cannot be ruled out. The relationship with behavioral changes is discussed.
The ripening of blue and Roquefort cheeses is accomplished by the concerted and controlled actions of enzymes of the mold Penicillium roqueforti. The properties and effects of the enzymes involved in flavor development (i.e., proteases, lipase and beta-ketoacid decarboxylase) are reviewed. The metabolic activities of both spores and mycelia of P. roqueforti in relation to fatty acid metabolism and flavor generation are discussed. The chemical composition of blue cheese flavor and the simulation of this flavor by fermentation and formulation are briefly surveyed. Some nutritional aspects of blue cheese are cited.
A commercially available sorbent-based dialysate regeneration system has been compared to conventional single-pass dialysate delivery systems for treatment periods of six weeks in 13 patients on maintenance dialysis. The results of treatment were virtually identical in comparing sorbent and conventional systems except that seven of the eight patients using 2-5 M2 dialysers for 3--4 hours thrice per week developed asymptomatic metabolic acidosis with the dialysate regeneration system. This complication was not seen in the five patients using 1-3 M2 dialysers and having a 6--7 hour treatment thrice weekly. Dialysate regeneration systems are particularly suited for use when water supplies are limited or of insufficient purity for single-pass dialysis, and when a portable artificial kidney is required. To avoid metabolic acidosis with this system, using currently available disposable cartridges, each dialysis treatment should be of at least 4-5 hours duration.
The authors describe an electrochemical technique for the measurement of salivary pH by contact. They present a critical study fo 167 cases. The values obtained are characteristic in terms of age and the site of determination (dorsal surface of the tongue, orifice of Wharton's or Stenon's ducts).
Gastric aspirates were obtained from 12 healthy volunteers, 49 patients with duodenal ulcer, 14 with gastric ulcer and 35 with gastric carcinoma. The mean total viable bacterial counts in these groups were as follows: volunteers 0, duodenal ulcer 3.8 X 10(1), gastric ulcer 6.95 X 10(4), carcinoma 1.9 X 10(7) organisms/ml. The incidence of wound sepsis in patients without antibiotic cover was; duodenal ulcer 17 per cent, gastric ulcer 38 per cent, carcinoma 56 per cent. Regardless of the underlying pathology, patients with counts greater than 5 X 10(6) organisms/ml in the gastric aspirate had a 93 per cent incidence of wound sepsis, compared with 16 per cent in patients with counts of less than 5 X 10(6) organisms/ml (P less than 0.001). In the group with high counts all except one of the wound infections were caused by organisms present in the stomach at the time of operation. There was a good correlation in the bacteriology of apirates obtained during preoperative endoscopy compared with operative nasogastric samples (n = 31) both for viable counts (r = 0.93) and for the counts of individual organisms. Therefore, preoperative endoscopy can be used to identify patients who are at risk of developing wound sepsis after gastric surgery.
The turnover rate of GABA is measured in substantia nigra, globus pallidus, N. accumbens, and striatum of rats injected with muscimol, a potent GABA agonist, and diazepam. The similarity of action of the two drugs on GABA turnover further supports the theory that diazepam acts as a GABA-mimetic drug. Haloperidol and clozapine affect GABA turnover differently in different nuclei. Haloperidol decreases GABA turnover in caudate but does not affect that in substantia nigra, whereas clozapine increases GABA turnover in both areas. However, both drugs accelerate GABA turnover in globus pallidus and N. accumbens. It is suggested that an increase of GABA turnover and perhaps of GABA release in striatum and substantia nigra may account for the lack of tardive dyskinesia and extrapyramidal side effects of clozapine.
(1) The thermotropic behaviour of dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidic acid and phosphatidylcholine was investigated by differential scanning calorimetry and freeze-fracture electron microscopy as a function of pH and of Ca2+ concentration. (2) From the thermotropic behaviour as a function of pH, profiles could be constructed from which apparent pK values of the charged groups of the lipids could be determined. (3) Excess Ca2+ induced a shift of the total phase transition in 14 : 0/14 : 0-glycerophosphocholine and 14 : 0/14 : 0-glycerophosphoglycerol mixtures. In 14 : 0/14 : 0-glycerophosphocholine bilayers containing 16 : 0/16 : 0-glycerophosphoglycerol lateral phase separation was induced by Ca2+. (4) Up to molar ratios of 1 : 2 of 14 : 0/14 : 0-glycerophosphoserine to 14 : 0/14: 0-glycerophosphocholine, excess Ca2+ induced lateral phase separation. Addition to mixtures of higher molar ratios caused segregation into different structures: the liposome organization and the stacked lamellae/cylindrical organization. (5) Addition of excess Ca2+ to mixtures of 14 : 0/14 : 0-glycerophosphocholine and 14 : 0/14 : 0-phosphatidic acid caused, independent of the molar ratio, separation into two structural different organizations. (6) The nature of Ca2+-induced changes in bilayers containing negatively charged phospholipids is strongly dependent on the character of the polar headgroup of the negatively charged phospholipid involved.
R-Plasmids from a number of trimethoprim-resistant Escherichia coli and Citrobacter sp. were studied after transfer to E. coli K12 hosts. Each was found to specify a dihydrofolate reductase which was resistant to trimethoprim and Methotrexate, and which could be completely separated from the host chromosomal enzyme by gel filtration. Two distinct types of R-plasmid dihydrofolate reductases were identified. Type I enzymes, typified by the R483 enzyme previously described (Skld, O., and Widh, A. (1974) J. Biol. Chem. 249, 4324-4325), are synthesized in amounts severalfold higher than the chromosomal enzyme. The 50% inhibitory concentrations (I50) of trimethoprim, Methotrexate, and aminopterin are increased several thousandfold over the corresponding values for the chromosomal enzyme. Type II R-plasmid dihydrofolate reductases are synthesized in about the same amount, or less, as the chromosomal enzyme, but are practically several hundredfold higher than those for the type I enzymes. Both types of R-plasmid dihydrofolate reductase showed little difference from the chromosomal enzyme in the binding of dihydrofolate, NADPH, folic acid, and 2,4-diaminopyrimidine.
The influence of denaturation conditions upon the character of partial denaturation of DNA with random base distribution were thoroughly studied. Maps of partial DNA denaturation were obtained at T less than TAT for phage phiB DNA at pH 10.7 and 5.5; Tg9 DNA at pH 8.8; at T less than TAT for phiB DNA at pH 10.9 and Tg9 DNA at pH 8.8. The map quality was better when obtained at higher pH values; the peaks became sharper and higher against the background. We failed to obtain maps of partial denaturation at pH 5.5, T less than TAT. The improvement of the map quality and existence of the partial denaturation maps at T less than TAT at pH 10.9 were explained by the increase of primary melting probability of AT-rich DNA regions. At high pH the denaturation map quality was temperature independent. This was explained by a very weak temperature dependence of primary melting probability for all maps of equal quality. The map quality became worse, when the quantity of loops was increased.
In earlier studies of the membrane-bound penicillinase of Bacillus licheniformis 749/C, the enzyme present in the vesicles that were released during protoplast formation and the enzyme retained in the plasma membrane of protoplasts appeared to differ (i) in their behavior on gel permeation chromatography in the presence or absence of deoxycholate and (ii) in their tendency to convert to the hydrophilic exoenzyme (Sargent and Lampen, 1970). We have now shown that these vesicle preparations contain a soluble, heat-sensitive enzyme(s) that is released along with the vesicles during protoplast formation. The enzyme will convert the vesicle penicillinase to a form that resembles exopenicillinase, and this conversion can be inhibited by deoxycholate under certain circumstances. Sedimentation of such vesicle preparations at 100,000 X g produces vesicles which contain penicillinase that behaves as the plasma membrane enzyme obtained from protoplasts. Exopenicillinases released by growing cells at pH 6.5 and by washed cells or protoplasts at pH 9.0 have the same NH2-terminal residues (lysine and some glutamic acid); in addition, the various release systems show a parallel sensitivity to inhibition by deoxycholate, quinacrine, chloroquine, and o-phenanthroline. The formation of exopenicillinase (by cleavage of the membrane-bound enzyme) may well be dependent on the action of the releasing enzyme.
Male Swiss-Webster mice were made physically dependent on ethanol using the ethanol vapour inhalation technique. Animals pretreated with methysergide, a known 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor blocking agent, had significantly greater alcohol-induced withdrawal convulsions than saline pretreated controls. These findings suggest that the reduction of 5-HT at receptor sites may result in the augmentation of the withdrawal convulsions.
Trichophyton rubrum strains freshly isolated from clinical material exhibited red pigment formation within 7 days at 26 degrees C on slant serum-albumin agar, initial pH 7.0. In Trichophyton mentagrophytes strains this phenomenon could not be observed. Since in the case of T. rubrum, yellow pigmentation will appear at an initial pH of 5.0, the use of initial pH values of 7.0 and 5.0 is recommended for diagnostic application of slant serum-albumin agar.
A list of prerequisites, essential items of information and definitions applying to studies on induction of labour is presented. It is suggested that their use would permit proper analysis and comparison of results obtained by different investigators.
The technique and scoring system of 24-hr pH esophageal monitoring has been modified to evaluate gastroesophageal reflux in infants and children. The data from two pediatric controls and five clinical cases are presented and compared to normal adult values. This test has better objectivity, precision, sensitivity, and reliability than contrast studies, endoscopy, esophageal biopsy, acid perfusion, or acid reflux tests. The 24-hr pH monitoring assists the evaluation of sphincter maturation, pulmonary disease, and the significance of body position. With more experience, this technique could identify children at risk fo developing severe complications of reflux esophagitis and aid in the selection of candidates for surgical intervention.
Takayasu's aortitis is an arterial inflammatory disease of arteries of unknown etiology. Fainting is a common symptom and has been attributed to ypersensitivity of the baroreflex. We studied baroreflex sensitivity in 11 patients with Takayasu's aortitis and compared it with that of eight control subjects of comparable age. Baroreflex sensitivity was assessed by determining the slope of a regression line relating the rise of systolic arterial pressure to the prolongation of the R-R interval of the electrocardiogram during a transient rise of arterial pressure induced by an intravenous injection of phenylephrine. The average baroreflex slope of patients with Takayasu's arteritis (4.0 +/- 0.8 msec/mm Hg) was significantly less than that of control subjects (10.7 +/- 0.8 msec/mm Hg, P less than 0.001). Reduced baroreflex sensitivity in patients with Takayasu's aortitis may be due to the hardening of the arteries where baroreceptors lie, or to hypertension and/or cardiac disease which was present in most of the patients included in this study. Patients with Takayasu's aortitis who complained of fainting also showed the reduced baroreflex sensitivity. This indicates that fainting in this disease is not likely to be caused by the hyperreactivity of the baroreceptors as is commonly postulated.
The susceptibilities of hemoglobin and hemoglobin-haptoglobin complex to intracellular proteases differ significantly. Hemoglobin and hemoglobin-haptoglobin complex are degested in the regions of pH 5.5-2.5 and 4.0-2.5 respectively, having pH optima at pH 4.0 and 3.0 respectively, by intracellular proteases from rat and mouse liver or spleen. The difference in proteolytic susceptibility is found to be due to the different stabilities to acid among hemoglobin derivatives as evidenced by the measurements of their helical contents in acidic pH.
In normal human volunteers, when urinary pH was plotted versus time, the circadian sine-wave type curve was not altered by chronic administration of a commercially available suspension containing a mixture of magnesium and aluminum hydroxides, although the antacid perturbed the entire curve in a more alkaline direction. A single dose of the antacid had little effect on urinary pH. There was a highly significant linear relationship between the change in hydrogen ion concentration during chronic antacid treatment and the initial control urinary hydrogen ion concentration, but there was no significant correlation between change in urinary pH and initial control urinary pH as has been previously reported. The above results were based on the evaluation of the hydrogen ion concentrations of 1562 separate urine samples collected from 24 normal subjects in a three treatment crossover study. It is recommended that: (1) research studies involving drug-drug interactions with antacids be designed to consider the effect of the antacid on the circadian rhythm of urinary pH, and (2) pH values not be averaged as commonly reported in the literature, but rather the pH values be converted to hydrogen ion concentrations before statistical analysis.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cyclic GMP may derive from central cholinergic neurotransmission. Measurement of CSF cyclic GMP may allow evaluation of possible implications of the dopaminergic hyperactivity in schizophrenia proposed by the dopamine hypothesis. The CSF cyclic GMP levels in 27 drug-free schizophrenic patients was measured and compared to that in 9 psychiatrically-healthy individuals. The mean CSF cyclic GMP level of the schizophrenic patients was 23 per cent lower than that of the control group, but this difference did not attain statistical significance. In addition the CSF cyclic GMP levels in a group of 10 schizophrenic patients were compared before and after 2 months of neuroleptic treatment. The mean level of cyclic GMP rose 50 per cent after treatment with phenothiazines (P less than 0.05). These results could indicate some tendency for decreased activity of central cholinergic neurons in schizophrenia as well as a restored dopaminergic-cholinergic balance after neuroleptic treatment.
Testicular blood flow and testosterone concentrations in the spermatic venous plasma were measured on unilaterally cryptorchid rats. Blood flow to the cryptorchid testis was 31.4 +/- 11.7 (SD) ml/100 g X min which was significantly higher thant that of the scrotal testis (17.7 +/- 4.4 ml/100 g X min). Stereological analysis showed a relative increase of blood vessel containing interstitial tissue in the cryptorchid testis, which was probably the main factor responsible for the relative increase of blood flow to the cryptorchid testis. The increase of interstitial tissue was greater than the increase of blood vessels and thus, the interstitium in the cryptorchid testis contained a number of vessels which was smaller than that of the interstitium in the scrotally located testis. The concentration of testosterone in the spermatic vein of the abdominal testis was 18.0 +/- 5.5 (SD) ng/ml and the corresponding value for the scrotal testis was 41.2 +/- 7.0 ng/ml. Calculations based on functional and morphological data indicate that the function of the Leydig cells in the abdominal testis was impaired. It was concluded that the outflow of testosterone from the cryptorchid testis was highly reduced.
Growth of Escherichia coli, based upon the fermentation of glucose, is associated with a low intracellular level of superoxide dismutase. Exhaustion of glucose, or depression of the pH due to accumulation of organic acids, causes these organisms to then obtain energy from the oxidative degradation of other substances present in a rich medium. This shift in metabolism is associated with a marked increase in the rate of synthesis of superoxide dismutase. Depression of the synthesis of superoxide dismutase by glucose is not due to catabolite repression since it is not eliminated by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate and since alpha-methyl glucoside does not mimic the effect of glucose. Moreover, glucose itself no longer depresses superoxide dismutase synthesis when the pH has fallen low enough to cause a shift to a non-fermentative metabolism. It appears likely that superoxide dismutase is controlled directly or indirectly by the intracellular level of O2- and that glucose depressed the level of this enzyme because glucose metabolism is not associated with as rapid a production of O2- as is the metabolsim of many other substances. In accord with this view is the observation that paraquat, which can increase the rate of production of O2- by redox cycling, caused a rapid and marked increase in superoxide dismutase.
Gastric secretion and fasting plasma gastrin levels were investigated in 26 patients with bilharzial hepatic fibrosis and 26 controls. The groups did not differ in their basal secretion. When stimulated by intravenous infusion of histamine the maximal acid output in patients with bilharzial hepatic fibrosis was significantly less than in the control group. This was unlikely to be a result of neutralisation by reflux of alkaline duodenal contents as the volumes of reflux were not different from control subjects, but was compatible with a true reduction in gastric secretion as assessed by two-component hypothesis. Neither the lowered gastric acidity nor the liver damage in patients with bilharzial hepatic fibrosis correlated with circulating gastrin. The fasting levels of plasma gastrin in these patients were not different from controls. As in other liver diseases the cause of diminished gastric secretion remains unclear.
Intrasplenic pH in vivo was deduced from measurements on blood drained from cat spleen during contraction with the inflow occluded. The pH of blood in the red pulp is normally 7.20, but stasis or reduced flow through the pulp causes pH to fall toward 6.8. The splenic pulp contains blood of high hematocrit. To evaluate the role of buffering by the red cells themselves, intrasplenic p/ in red cell-free spleens was, therefore, estimated atering and leaving the spleen during red cell washout. At inflow pH less than 6.8 the outflow pH was raised, at inflow pH = 6.8 there was no change, b,t at inflow pH greater than 6.8 the outflow pH was lowered. These results indicate that the pH environment of red cells in the spleen results indicate that the pH environment of red cells in the spleen results from the interplay of two separate factors: i) pH-determining elements of the splenic tissue that buffer at 6.8, and ii) buffering provided by red cells passing through the pulp.
D. J. Davis & E. L. Gross (1976) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 449, 554-564 previously observed that the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein or chlorophyll protein complex II self-associated as determined by ultracentrifugation. We have determined the stoichiometry of complex formation by immobilizing the monomer on ethylenediamine-Sepharose 4B and determing the ability of immobilized protein to bind the free protein. The amount of soluble protein bound to the immobilized protein increased as the concentration of soluble protein increased. The binding was maximal between pH 7 and 8. The maximum binding was three molecules bound per one molecule of protein immobilized. These results indicate that a tetramer is the intrinsic structural unit of the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein in the chloroplast membrane. Upon complex formation, the chlorophyll fluorescence was decreased without any spectral change. The maximum binding was approximately doubled upon addition of 0.5 mM CaCl2 whereas 5 mM NaCl had no effect. Addition of CaCl2 had no effect on the fluorescence of the monomer. The light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein can be isolated from a sodium lauryl sulfate extract of chloroplasts by affinity  chromatography using the immobilized light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein.
gamma-glutamyl Transferase fron Sheep brain cortex capillaries was studied from the point of view of transport of aminoacids across blood brain barrier. Excess substrate inhibition was competitive and observed both with donor (glutathione) and various acceptors (methionine, alanine, tryptophan) but not with arginine. Excess glutathione inhibition of transfer reaction is concomitant with an increase of total reaction (transfer + hydrolysis + autotranspeptidation). With regard to aminoacids, the greater the K'm the stronger the inhibition. This inhibition is the result of formation of a dead complex. Lineweaver-Burk plots 1/v versus 1/[acceptor] give straight lines meeting at the same point, whereas 1/v verus 1/[donor] plots are roughly parallel for high aminoacid concentrations and become secant for the low ones. Replots of slopes vs. 1/[acceptor] are not linear: the lower the aminoacid affinity the more pronounced the slope replot curvature. Thus kinetic patterns are consistent with a branched ping-pong mechanism including a ternary complex (Enzyme-acceptor-H2O) at high or low relative concentration, which balances the two branches. The estimated value of kinetic parameters does not support the hypothesis of major implication of the enzyme in brain uptake of aminoacids.
The WHO stated a short time ago that the total eradication of smallpox would occur shortly. This announcement has been contradicted by an epidemic of smallpox in Somaila which in spite of the energetic measures taken, remained in the capital from August 1976 to January 1977 then extended to 10 regions out of 16 with from January 1977 to 18 June 1977, 1 567 cases of smallpox. This is only a provisional estimation as it is increasing every week. In view of the ease and rapidity of airline communication, it is very possible that infected subjects or products arrive in France, it is necessary for doctors to be warned and counteract the present tendancy to neglect the legal requirement for smallpox vaccination.
1. Due to their common origin from the neural crest the hormonogenic cells of the intestinal tract show similar cyto-chemical and ultra-structural characteristics. 2. Hyperplasiae and tumors of these cells lead to excessive hormone production with its consequences on the reacting organs. 3. Hormone producing tumors can be confined to one organ only, but as multiple endocrine adenomatosis they can afflict several organs. 4. Diagnosis of most hormone producing tumors is possible with the adequate radio-immunologic tests. Radiologic and endoscopic examinations can contribute to the localization of the tumor. 5. Surgical resection of the tumor or of the reacting organs impaired by the overproduction of hormones from the tumor is the indicated therapy. Medicamentous therapy is rarely successful. 6. The growth of most hormonogenic tumors is relatively slow. Rates of survival of up to 30 years have been known, even after formation of metastases of the tumor. Effects of hormone overproduction on other organs can reduce the prognosis.
The starch synthase activity of bundle sheath cells of maize leaves is very low in darkened plants and increases on illumination. In order to find an explanation of these facts we subjected leaf strips, isolated bundle sheath cells and enzymic preparations to pH-changes and to oxidizing or reducing substances. We found that the increase of the activity produced by light could also be caused in the leaf strips by adding malate to the suspending fluid in the dark. On the contrary, with isolated bundle sheath cells no increase with light or with the addition of malate could be observed. There was a decrease of activity due to acidification or to the addition of dichlorophenol-indophenol (DCPIP). The same effect could be observed with enzymic preparations as with the isolated bundle sheath cells, whereas the decrease of activity was higher by acidification of samples coming from darkened plants than for those enzymes prepared from illuminated plants. Also other substances inhibited the synthase activity: benzoquinone, DOPA, caffeic acid, TMPD or Fe (CN6) 3- and PCMB, while only DTE could increase it. After preincubation with PCMB the enzyme activity could be restored with DTE, not so for the preincubation with DCPIP. With an enzymic preparation that contained intact organelles the increase of activity could also be produced by NADH. Thus we follow that the decrease of synthase activity in the darkened plants is due to acidification and to the presence of oxidizing substances, too.
The stability-time profiles of the active ingredient of five generically equivalent brands of penicillin V potassium for oral solution, and of five generically equivalent brands of ampicillin for oral suspension, were studied. Three controlled conditions were employed-refrigerated, room and elevated temperature-and all the samples were assayed chemically for drug remaining at specific time intervals after reconstitution. The results showed that considerable variations in the initial concentrations of active component existed among the various ampicillin and penicillin products. In one penicillin product the official content requirement was not met. The data also showed that although the labels on each of the commerical penicillin products tested indicate that the reconstituted products may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency, only one penicillin product still met 90% of label claim (minimal potency requirement of the United States Pharmacopeia for dry powder). All ampicillin products tested were stable when stored at the conditions recommended by the manufacturers, but the trihydrate forms exhibited greater stability than the anhydrous forms, probably because of the more rapid dissolution rate of anhydrous ampicillin.
1. The transmission in the spinal monosynaptic pathway was studied during repetitive stimulation of a motor nerve by 10 stimuli at 2, 5, or 10 Hz in spinal cats. Initially, the amplitudes of the monosynaptic responses rapidly declined, reaching a plateau after a few stimuli. The level of the plateau was inversely related to the frequency of stimulation. 2. This depression of monosynaptic response was seen only when the same pathway was stimulated; the response elicited from the lateral gastrocnemius was not depressed when preceded by stimulation of the medial gastrocnemius nerve and vice versa. Pretreatment with semicarbazide left the homosynaptic depression unchanged while suppressing the dorsal root reflex. The participation of a depolarization of primary afferents in the described depression is, therefore, unlikely. 3. The decrease of transmitter release by successive volleys, which is the cause of the observed depression, could conceivably be related to the depletion of transmitter stores. 4. A procedure is described, based on this assumption, which allows the calculation of transmitter turnover. The input-output relation in the spinal monosynaptic pathway is used to convert the amplitudes of monosynaptic responses to the amounts of transmitter, both relative to the maximum response. The changes of transmitter release are analyzed under the assumption that each volley releases instantaneously a constant fraction of the transmitter store available for release and that this store is replenished at a constant fraction of the depleted part per second. 5. The values of fractional release per volley were about 0.4, irrespective of frequency of stimulation. 6. The values of fractional replenishment per second ranged from about 1 to 5 on the average, depending directly on the frequency of stimulation. 7. It is suggested that the described procedure might be useful in analyzing drug effects on synaptic transmission.
We undertook an external quality control survey of blood-gas analysis in 16 laboratories at 13 hospitals. All samples were prepared in the laboratories under investigation by equilibration of blood or serum with gas mixtures of known composition. pH of serum was measured with no significant bias but with an SD of random error 0.026 pH units, which was almost twice the SD of the reference range (0.015). An acceptable random error (half SD of reference range) was not obtained in a longitudinal internal quality control suvey although there were acceptable results for buffer pH in both field and internal surveys. Blood PO2 was measured with no significant bias but with SD of random error 1.38 kPa which reduced to 0.72 kPa by excluding one egregious result. The latter value was just over half of the SD of the reference range (1.2 kPa). PCO2 of blood was also measured without significant bias but with a much smaller SD of random error of 0.28 kPa (by excluding one egregious result), which was again just over half the SD of the reference range (0.51 kPa). Measurements of blood PO2 and PCO2 seem generally acceptable in relation to their respective reference ranges but measurements of pH were unsatisfactory in both internal and external trials.
Choloyl-CoA synthetase (EC 6.2.1.7) was characterized for the first time under appropriated assay conditions. The p/ optimum for the reaction is pH 7.2.-7.3. The reaction has an absolute requirement for bivalent cation. Several different metal ions fulfil this requirement, but Mn2+ and Mg2+ were the most effective. The KAppm (apparent Km) for CoA, extrapolated from kinetic data, is 50 micronM, but in fact the rate of reaction is increased little by concentrations of CoA above 25 micronM. The KAppm for ATP is 600 micronM. High concentrations of ATP appear to cause substrate inhibition. The KAppm for cholate was 6 micronM. The enzyme was inhibited by treating the microsomal fraction with N-ethylmaleimide. The inclusion of various conjugated and unconjugated bile salts in the assay also inhibited the enzyme. Unconjugated bile salts were more potent inhibitors than the conjugated bile salts. High concentrations of oleic acid inhibited the enzyme. The properties of choloyl-CoA synthetase were not modified by alterations of the properties of the lipid phase of the microsomal membrane. Treatment with phospholipase A did not alter activity directly. Triton N-101 and Triton X-100 also were without effect on activity, and the enzyme was insensitive to temperature-induced phase transitions within the lipid portion of the membrane. The enzyme can be solubilized from the microsomal membrane in an active form by treatment with Triton N-101.
Treatment of rat liver sulfite oxidase with trypsin leads to loss of ability to oxidize sulfite in the presence of cytochrome c as electron acceptor. Ability to oxidize sulfite with ferricyanide as acceptor is undiminished, while sulfite leads to O2 activity is partially retained. Gel filtration of the proteolytic products has led to the isolation of two major fragments of dissimilar size derived from sulfite oxidase. The smaller fragment has a molecular weight of 9500 and appears to be monomeric when detached from sulfite oxidase. It contains the heme in its cytochrome b5 structure, has no sulfite oxidase activity, and is reducible with dithionite but not with sulfite. The heme fragment can mediate electron transfer between pig liver microsomal NADH cytochrome b5 reductase and cytochrome c. The larger fragment has a molecular weight of 47,400 under denaturing conditions but elutes from Sephadex G-200 as a dimer. It contains no heme but retains all of the molybdenum and the modified sulfite-oxidizing capacity present in the proteolytic mixture. All of the EPR properties of the molybdenum center of native sulfite oxidase are retained in the molybdenum fragment. The molybdenum center is a weak chromophore with an absorption sectrum suggestive of coordination with sulfur ligands. Reduction by sulfite generates a spectrum attributable to molybdenum (V). Spectra of oxidized and sulfite-reduced preparations are sensitive to anions and pH. NH2-terminal analysis of native sulfite oxidase and the two tryptic fragments has permitted the conclusion that the sequence represented by the heme fragment is the NH2 terminus of native enzyme. These studies have demonstrated that the two cofactor moieties of sulfite oxidase are contained in distinct domains which are covalently held in contiguity by means of an exposed hinge region. Isolation of functional heme and molybdenum domains of sulfite oxidase after tryptic cleavage has demonstrated conclusively that the cytochrome b5 region of the molecule is required for electron transfer to the physiological acceptor, cytochrome c.
1. When phentermine was injected intraperitoneally to rabbits, 77% of the dose was excreted in the urine within 2 days; N-oxidized metabolic products accounted for 62% dose. Major excretion products were N-hydroxyphentermine (28% dose), conjugated N-hydroxyphentermine (32% dose) and unchanged phentermine (16% dose). 2. Similarly injected N-hydroxyphentermine was excreted (62% dose) in the urine in 2 days; only 4% dose was recovered unchanged. Major routes of metabolism of N-hydroxyphentermine was conjugation (36% dose) and reduction to the parent amine (15% dose). Conditions for hydrolysis of urine to liberate N-hydroxyphentermine from its conjugates were studied; N-hydroxyphentermide decomposes in strong acid. 3. Only 10% of injected alpha, alpha-dimethyl-alpha-nitroso-beta-phenylethane was excreted in the urine in 2 days. 4. N-Oxidations is the major pathway of metabolism of phentermine in rabbits; the present results suggest that some biological activity may be mediated by the pharmacologically active N-hydroxyphentermine.
The properties of prostaglandin synthetase systems (PSSs) in the renal medulla of the rat and rabbit, and inhibition by ketoprofen, indomethacin, ibuprofen, phenylbutazone and aspirin were investigated in relation to their anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic and ulcerogenic activities. Rat and rabbit PSSs produced prostaglandin (PG)E and PGF from arachidonic and dihomo-gamma-linolenic acids and had an optimal pH of 8.5 and 7.5 for PGE formation, respectively. Only a slight loss of activity occurred with lyophilization. In the rat PSS, all drugs tested were inhibitory in the order of ketoprofen, ibuprofen, indomethacin and aspirin, respectively. In the rabbit PSS, the same potency relationship was also found. Drug sensitivity of the rat PSS was remarkably lower than that of the rabbit PSS. Significant correlations were noted between the inhibitory potencies of the drugs against both PSSs and other in vivo pharmacological activities within the same species.
Side effects of high and low potency neuroleptics are contrasted. Low potency drugs are more likely to cause central, autonomic and peripheral side effects of all types with the exception of extrapyramidal symptoms. The tendency to produce tardive dyskinesia cannot be compared as relevant data do not currently exist. Greater affinity for the dopamine receptor and twenty to seventy-fold greater milligram and molar potency are advanced as arguments for greater specificity of high potency drugs in the treatment of psychoses. It is proposed that the high potency neuroleptics might be considered the drugs of choice in the treatment of schizophrenia and schizophreniform psychoses.
The aim was to study possible alterations in the microbial flora of plaque and saliva in relation to partial substitution of dietary sucrose with xylitol. The development of plaque index values was observed simultaneously. These observations were carried out during a 1-year clinical trial, the effects of sucrose (S) and xylitol (X) chewing gum on the incidence of dental caries being observed in 100 young adults. Paraffin-stimulated saliva samples were diluted stepwise and cultivated on Rogosa S.L. agar and Sabouraud agar aerobically. Lyophilized dental plaque samples were cultivated on phenol red agar under anaerobic and aerobic conditions. The pH-values were measured after incubating the mixed plaque flora for 1 and 7 days in the presence of various sugars. Both the arithmetic and geometric means of the total CFU values on Rogosa S.L. agar decreased in the S-group at the 6-month phase but returned to the starting level after one year, whereas in the X-group they decreased or remained on the starting level. At the 6-month phase the difference between the groups was significant (U-test, p = 0.0013) and almost significant (U-test, p = 0.0569) at the end of the study. No significant differences or changes could be seen between or within the groups on Sabouraud agar. The geometric mean values of S. sanguis and S. mutans as well as the total CFU values on phenol red agar decreased considerably in both the S- and X-groups, but no significant differences could be detected in any of the streptococcal counts between the groups. The pH of the carbohydrate-containing culture media infected with mixed dental plaque significantly decreased, with the exception of the xylitol containing ones in which the pH values were not lowered even after 7 days' incubation. A significant decrease in plaque formation in relation of chewing per se was demonstrable. The difference in the plaque index values equalling or exceeding 2 was significant between the S- and X-groups. No bacterial adaptation to utilize xylitol occurred during the trial.
A simple, rapid and sensitive method is described for the analysis of unchanged benzodiazepine drugs and their metabolites, in human and animal tissues, using the proteolytic enzyme subtilisin Carlsberg followed by reverse-phase liquid chromatography. The enzymic digestion yields far higher recoveries than conventional extraction methods, while the liquid chromatogrpahic analysis allows the rapid separation and detection of nanogram quantities of these drugs without the need for elaborate "clean-up" procedures.
An inhibitor of adenylate and guanylate cyclases was tested on strips of left atria from rabbits. Effects of catecholamines (cardiotonic) and of acetylcholine (cardiodepressive) were blocked, and positive force-frequency was converted to negative. Ouabain produced only contracture without positive inotropy. The cardiotonic effect of increased calcium remained. Data suggest that cyclic nucleotides modulate calcium associated with these stimuli.
A simple and sensitive radiometric method to determine the individual enantiomers of cicloprofen has been developed. 14C-Cicloprofen was converted to its L-leucine diastereoisomers, which were separated by thin-layer chromatography and quantified by measuring the radioactivity in the area corresponding to each individual diastereoisomer. This technique has also been used to measure the enantiomers of unlabeled cicloprofen by condensing with 14C-labeled L-leucine. By using the radiometric method, a unique biotransformation process, the inversion of the (-)-enantiomer of alpha-methylfluorene-2-acetic acid to its (+)-enantiomer, has been demonstrated in the rat and monkey. The rate of (-)- to (+)-inversion was found to be faster in the rat than in the monkey. After single or repeated oral adminstration of the racemic modification or the (-)-enantiomer of cicloprofen to both species, the ratio of (+)- to (-)-enantiomers of cicloprofen in plasma, urine, or bile increased with time. At 5, 22, and 48 hr after oral administration of a single 50-mg/kg dose of the (-)-enantiomer, 14C-cicloprofen in rat plasma contained 20, 50, and 79%, respectively, of the (+)-enantiomer. After receiving the same dose of (-)-enantiomer, monkey plasma contained 16.5% and 32% of (+)-enantiomer at 8 and 24 hr, respectively. After oral administration of a single 50-mg/kg dose of the (+)-enantiomer of 14C-cicloprofen to rats and monkeys, the percentage of (-)-enantiomer in plasma varied from 2 to 15%. Since the administered (+)-enantiomer contained 4% of (-)-enantiomer and the (+)-enantiomer was excreted at a faster rate than its (-)-antipode by rats or monkeys, it is not known whether an occasional small percentage increase of (-)-enantiomer in plasma resulted from the (+)-to-(-) inversion, or from faster elimination of the (+)-enantiomer. Nevertheless, if (+)-to-(-) inversion does occur in these two species, the rate is much slower than for the (-)-to-(+) inversion.
D-Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate forms adducts with thiols. These adducts, which are presumed to be hemithioacetals, equilibrate rapidly with the unhydrated form of the aldehyde, which is the subtrate for D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase. The adduct provides a substrate buffer system whereby a constant low free aldehyde concentration can be maintained during the oxidation of aldehyde by the enzyme and NAD+. With this system, the kinetics of the association of the aldehyde with the enzyme were examined. The rate profile for this reaction is a single exponential process, showing that all four active sites of the enzyme have equivalent and independent reactivity towards the aldehyde, with an apparent second-order rate constant of 5 X 10(7)M-1-S-1 at pH8.0 and 21 degrees C. The second-order rate constant becomes 8 X 10(7)M-1-S-1 when account is taken of the forward and reverse catalytic rate constants of the dehydrogenase. The pH-dependence of the observed rate constant is consistent with a requirement for the unprotonated form of a group of pK 6.1, which is the pK observed for second ionization of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. The rate of phosphorolysis of the acyl-enzyme intermediate during the steady-state oxidative phosphorylation of the aldehyde was studied, and is proportional to the total Pi concentration up to at least 1 mM-Pi at pH 7.5. The pH-dependence of the rate of NADH generation under these conditions can be explained by the rate law d[NADA]/dt = k[acy] holoenzyme][PO4(3-)-A1, where thioester bond, although kinetically indistinguishable rate equations for the reaction are possible. The rates of the phosphorolysis reaction and of the aldehyde-association reaction decrease with increasing ionic strength, suggesting that the active site of the enzyme has cationic groups which are involved in the reaction of the enzyme with anionic substrates.
Angiograms of 10 patients with giant cell arteritis who had large-artery and aortic abnormalities were reviewed. The affected arteries had multiple stenotic areas, and occlusions were relatively common, usually located at the end of tapered stenotic segments. Bridging collateral arteries usually refilled the distal portion of the occluded artery. The laterations were seen most frequently in the subclavian, axillary, and brachial arters, and the arteriographic lesions reflected the clinical findings. Such arteriographic abnormalities are suggestive of giant cell arteritis in a patient over the age of 50. The differential diagnosis includes Takayasu's disease, arteriosclerosis, thoracic outlet syndrome, and ergotism.
The phenylalanine-sensitive 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase (7-phospho-2-keto-3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptonate D-erythrose-4-phosphate lyase (pyruvate phosphorylating), EC 4.2.1.15) was purified to apparent homogeneity from extracts of Escherichia coli K12. The enzyme has a molecular weight of 140,000 as judged by gel filtration and sedimentation equilibrium analysis. The enzyme has a subunit molecular weight of 35,000 as determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate, suggesting that the native form of the enzyme is a tetramer. This was confirmed by cross-linking the enzyme with dimethylsuberimidate and by analyzing the cross-linked material by gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. The enzyme shows a narrow pH optimum between pH 6.5 and 7.0. The enzyme is stable for several months when stored at -20 degrees C in buffers containing phosphoenolpyruvate. Removal of phosphoenolpyruvate causes an irreversible inactivation of the enzyme. The enzyme is strongly inhibited by L-phenylalanine and to a lesser degree by dihydrophenylalanine. Molecular parameters of the previously isolated tyrosine-sensitive 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase from E. coli (Schoner, R., and Herrmann, K.M. (1976) J. Biol. Chem. 251, 5440-5447) are compared with those of the phenylalanine-sensitive isoenzyme from the same organism.
The case of acute arteria mesenterica superior syndrome--occurred in a boy aged 10, as rare complication of high voltage electro-trauma--is reported. The aetiology of the syndrome, as well as a possible new pathogenic factor are discussed. The clinical picture and the therapeutic principles are dealt with.
The in-situ sweat test is prone to errors from various sources. This paper examines errors due to evaporation, absorption of water into the skin, and pressure of the electrode on the skin. Only evaporation caused serious errors. The accuracy and precision when measuring small chloride/sweat samples on the skin are not significantly worse than when measuring bulk solutions.
Serum CK-MB is regarded as a specific indicator for myocardial diseases. Total CK and the isoenzyme CK-MB were measured in 69 patients with myocardial infarction. In 5 of the cases no pathological CK-MB-activities have been seen. Nevertheless, the clinical importance of CK-MB determination as a differential diagnostic aid remains.
DNA polymerase activities in Micrococcus radiodurans were separated into two fractions after purification more than 2000 fold. They differ in pH optimum and residual activities in the absence of a full deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates complement. NAD partly inhibited one of the activities. Both activities were eluted as a single peak on gel filtration and sedimented at the same rate on glycerol gradient centrifugation. Molecular weight 140000 was calculated from Stokes radius and sedimentation constant. Deoxyribonuclease activity was detected on one of the polymerase activities which preferentially degraded double-stranded DNA. Priming activity of nicked DNA was reduced by gamma-irradiation. These results have been related to the possible rolls in repair synthesis in vivo or DNA synthesis in permeable cells of M. radiodurans.
This survey covers 786 children admitted with acute poisoning to the Saint-Pierre Hospital in Brussels between 1967 and 1976. The type and the frequency of products responsible for poisoning in the indigenous and immigrant children are compared. 45% of children admitted to hospital are immigrants but they constitute only 29% of the children admitted with poisoning. When compared with Belgian children, the immigrants more commonly ingest household products and ordinary drugs are taken more often than prescribed ones, but minor tranquillisers are particularly common. The socio-economic and psychologic factors responsible for these accidents are discussed and methods of prevention are suggested.
Among the most important coronary risk factors are a diet rich in saturated fatty acids, cholesterol and calories, hypercholesterolemia, high blood pressure and excessive smoking. The typical pain can be elicited by putting a strain on the patient, e.g. climbing stairs. The disappearance of the pain after treatment with nitroglycerine is one of the most important pointers. Treatment is with nitroglycerine which, moreover, remains the drug of choice, also with nitrates such as pentaerythritol tetranitrate and with betablockers like propranolol. Favorable results have also been reported with a combination of isosorbide dinitrate and propranolol.
The anatomy of three neurosecretory cell types in the central nervous system (c.n.s.) of the gastropod mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis (L.)- the Dark Green Cells, Yellow Cells and Yellow-green Cells-has been studied by using bright and dark field illumination of material stained for neurosecretion by the Alcian Blue-Alcian Yellow technique. The neuronal geometry of single and groups of neurosecretory cells of the various types has been reconstructed from serial sections, and the likely destination of most of their processes has been determined. Dark Green Cells are monopolar, occur exclusively within the central nervous system (c.n.s.), have few or no branches terminating in neuropile, and send axons to the surface of the pleuro-parietal and pleuro-cerebral connectives. The majority of Dark Green Cell axons however (80-85%), project down nerves which innervate ventral and anterior parts of the head-foot, the neck and the mantle. Dark Green Cell axons can be found in small nerves throughout these areas, and may terminate in a find plexus of axons on the surfaces of the nerves. Since previous experimental work has shown that the Dark Green Cells are involved in osmotic or ionic regulation, these results suggest that the target organ of the Dark Green Cells may be the skin. Yellow Cells occur both within and outside the c.n.s. They are usually monopolar, but can be bipolar. They have several axons which normally arise separately from a single pole of the cell body, or close to it. One or more processes leave the cell proximal to the point where separate axons arise, and may run unbranched for some distance through neuropile before terminating in fine brances and blobs of various sizes. These branches may release hormone inside the c.n.s. Yellow-green Cells are mono-, bi- or multi-polar, and like the Yellow Cells are found both within and outside the c.n.s. Some Yellow-green Cells, though not all, have projections which terminate in neuropile in fine branches and blobs. Yellow-green Cell bodies which occur in nerves can project back along the nerve into the c.n.s. The axons of Yellow Cells and Yellow-green Cells project to release sites in various ways. Some project into the connective tissue shealth of the c.n.s., which serves as a neurohaemal organ, either directly through the surface of a ganglion, or from the pleuro-cerebral or pleuro-parietal connectives. Other axons leave the c.n.s. via nerves leaving the left and right parietal and visceral ganglia; projections into the intestinal, anal, and internal right parietal nerves being most numerous. Axons which may be from either, or both Yellow Cells and Yellow-green Cells, can be found along the entire unbranched lengths of these nerves, and in subsequent branches which innervate organs lying in the anterior turn of the shell. All of these orgnas are closely associated with the lung cavity...
Trihalomethanes (haloforms) were metabolized to carbon monoxide by a rat liver microsomal fraction requiring both NADPH and molecular oxygen for maximal activity. GSH alone did not serve as a cofactor; however, GSH in the presence of NADPH and oxygen produced an 8-fold increase in the metabolism of bromoform to CO. Similar results were obtained with other sulfhydryl compounds. The biotransformation of bromoform to CO was characterized with respect to time course, microsomal protein concentration, pH and temperature. The metabolism of haloforms to CO followed the halide order; thus, iodoform yielded the greatest amount of CO, whereas chloroform yielded the smallest amount. A KM of 6.78 +/- 2.71 mM was established for bromoform and the Vmax was 1.09 +/- 0.19 nmol of CO per mg of microsomal protein per min. The energy of activation for this reaction was 6.5 +/- 0.18 kcal/mol. Cytochrome P-450 was found to bind bromoform to produce a type I binding spectrum. Treatment of rats with phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene increased the rate of conversion of bromoform to CO. Cobaltous chloride treatment of rats or storage of microsomal preparations at 4 degrees C reduced the rate of formation of CO from bromoform. SKF 525-A inhibited the conversion of bromoform to CO. These results suggest that haloforms are metabolized to CO via a cytochrome P-450-dependent mixed-function oxidase system.
The blood plasma gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGTP) activity was studied in 133 patients with macrofocal myocardial infarction, in 40 patients with microfocal myocardial infarction, in 30 patients with angina pectoris, and in 75 patients with cardiosclerosis and congestive cardiac failure. The activity of the enzyme increased in most patients with macrofocal myocardial infarction and in less than half of those with microfocal myocardial infarction beginning with the 3rd or 4th day, reached maximum by the 6th to 8th day of the disease, and then returned to normal levels in various lengths of time. In all patients with angina pectoris and acute left-ventricular failure the activity of the enzyme remained normal. It may be assumed from the results of the study that determination of GGTP activity in dynamics may be mainly employed in the diagnosis of macrofocal myocardial infarction, particularly after the first days of the disease. The enzyme test is hardly suitable for differential diagnosis between microfocal myocardial infarction and angina pectoris.
The destruction of herpesvirus-infected target cells by antibody-dependent and direct cell cytotoxicity was enhanced by the presence of bovine lymphokine-containing preparations. To relate these effects to possible in vivo mechanisms of recovery, several in vitro approaches were used to measure the effects of lymphokine-containing preparations on controlling viral spread. In the first approach it was shown that in the presence of lymphokines, virus-infected cells could be killed earlier in the replication cycle by the mechanism of antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity, thus possibly limiting spread of virus. That this was indeed the case was demonstrated by a decrease in the area of viral-induced cytopathology as well as in the total number of infected cells present. Secondly, the amount of infectious virus released was also markedly reduced in cultures incubated with lymphokines and immune peripheral blood lymphocytes as compared to cultures treated with either component alone. Finally, lymphokines caused the activation of macrophages. These results are discussed in terms of how various immune parameters may interact in a positive way so as to aid in the recovery from virus infection.
The isolation rate of Streptococcus pneumoniae in sputum cultures from patients with pneumococcal pneumonia is low. An investigation was made to determine whether this low yield might be due to loss of pneumocci and/or overgrowth by pharyngeal flora before the specimen is plated. Pneumococcal survival times and pharyngeal overgrowth at 4 degrees C and at room temperature were determined in sputum obtained from 42 patients with pneumococcal pneumonia. It was found that pneumococci survived for long periods in sputum--2.2 +/- 1.4 days at room temperature and 9.5 +/- 3.6 days at 4 degrees C. Overgrowth by pharyngeal flora occurred in only 6 of 42 specimens kept at 4 degrees C and 31 of 42 specimens kept at room temperature. The low yield of S. pneumoniae in sputum from patients with pneumococcal pneumonia is not explained by decreased viability of the organism.
Concerning a study carried out in 250 patients, the authors confirm the classical notions concerning the fall in platelets, fibrinogenesis, factor II, XII AT3 and plasminogen during ECC. A more precise study of platelet levels shows important variations depending on the patients, whereas the length of time of ECC, the degree of importance of aspiration the first minutes of ECC, appear to be aggravating factors. There is no correlation between the type and the length of the circuit. Furthermore, from the morphological standpoint, thrombocytic changes are also noted. The same can be said of platelet function. In the last part of the work, the authors studied the causes of platelet consumption and their prevention. On the whole, and in practice, consumption of coagulation factors during ECC remains a little disturbing. It is, however, worth continuing to study their prevention.
Treatment of wool with solutions of sodium tripolyphosphate, potassium tetrapyrophosphate, and sodium phosphate results in the formation of lysinoalanine, the amount of which increases from the first to the last reagent. As this may be due to the different pH, solutions of the three salts of the same pH were also tried. This series of experiments suggests that although the hydroxyl ions contribute to the formation of lysinoalanine, the governing factor is the kind of the anions concerned, as the sodium phosphate acts in a more rigorous may than the two other salts, in spite of the smaller concentration and the faster reduction of the pH of the solution during treatment.
Malaria in the Republic of the Philippines is caused principally by P. falciparum and P. vivax, with the former as predominant species. P. malariae is occasionally reported, while P. ovale is very rare and has been reported only in the island of Palawan. Malaria is widespread in distribution with prevalence varying from one area to the other. In 1970, the malaria morbidity rate was reported to be 77.6 per 100,000 while the mortality rate was 1.8 per 100,000. Case detection activities revealed that, in 1973, the slide parasite rate was 7.2%, the annual parasite index was 6.1% and the annual blood examination rate was 8.4%. The principal vector of malaria in the Philippines is An. minimus flavirostris which breeds in clear, fresh-water streams in foothills and mountain slopes. An. mangyanus and An. maculatus appear to play a secondary role. The vectorial capacity of the former appears to be confined only where conditions are primitive, while the latter is associated with malaria transmission in high altitudes. In the absence of fresh-water streams, the salt-water breeder mosquito, An. litoralis, assumes the vectorial role. The epidemiology of malaria in the Philippines is discussed. Emergence of strains of P. falciparum with diminished sensitivity to the commonly used antimalarial drugs is reported in Palawan and Rizal provinces. The development of malaria control activities in the Philippines are presented. As of 1972, Cagayan Valley, Palawan, Mindoro, Sulu and circumscribed areas in Mindanao are still considered hard-core malarious areas with on-going persistent transmission.
Liver tests were performed postoperatively on 25 women with "healthy" livers. Patients were divided into 3 groups according to the type of anesthesia used: 1. halothane; 2. neuroleptic; 3. peridural. In all 3 groups the variations in serum proteins and liver enzymes were similar up to the 15th postoperative day. Variations of LDH, AP, LAP, and CHE were within normal range; slight to moderate increases above normal were observed for GPT, GOT, GLDH, and gamma-GT. All 3 groups barely differ with respect to enzyme levels during the postoperative course. We therefore interpret these changes to indicate a reaction of the liver to the stress of operation rather than to the mode of anesthesia.
In immature cockerels adrenaline administration lowered the levels of plasma growth hormone. Both alpha and beta adrenergic receptor agonists also depressed the circulating growth hormone levels. In the presence of beta blockade, the suppressive effect of adrenaline on growth hormone secretion was not observed.
Samples from 260 non-jaundiced patients with elevated plasma alkaline phosphatase activities were analysed for gamma-glutamyltransferase and 5'-nucleotidase activity, and for alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme pattern. The plasma gamma-glutamyltransferase activity was found to be a more sensitive index than that of plasma 5'-nucleotidase in confirming the presence of a liver component of the elevated plasma alkaline phosphatase. If the gamma-glutamyltransferase level is normal it is probable that the increase in plasma alkaline phosphatase activity is of bone origin. However, and elevated gamma-glutamyltransferase result does not exclude a bone component; in this situation plasma alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes should be estimated. The causes of elevated activities of plasma alkaline phosphatase, 5'-nucleotidase and gamma-glutamyltransferase, found in this investigation were generally the same as those found by other worker. The effect of treatment by drugs on gamma-glutamyltransferase, an inducible enzyme, needs more investigation.
Quantitative estimates were made of the effects of several classes of drugs on spontaneous activity and neurotoxicity in mice. Clinically effective antipsychotic agents had a more selective action on spontaneous activity than other classes of drugs with the exception of clonidine and a related compound.
The effect of beta-blockade by acebutolol on global and regional myocardial perfusion (133Xenon wash-out) was studied in 10 patients with coronary artery disease. Another group of 10 similar patients was used to study the effect of acebutolol on left ventricular cavity size (metal markers--spot film camera). Global perfusion responses roughly paralleled the changes in rate-pressure variable which decreased in 8 patients and increased in 2 who had spontaneous angina pectoris. Regional perfusion decreased more in areas distal to less than 75% stenoses than in those distal to less than 75% stenoses (29 vs 12%; p = 0.10 less than 0.20). Left ventricular asynergy did not modify the response, nor did the presence or absence of collateral vessels. No evidence was found to support the thesis that beta-blockade may evoke a redistribution in perfusion which favours the potentially ischaemic areas of myocardium. Left ventricular cavity size remained unchanged after acebutolol, a cardioselective beta-blocking compound with some degree of agonist activity.
From results of the study of 37 patients with cardiac neurosis, new conceptual relationships to explain this condition are developed. Cardiac neurosis is explained as a disturbance of the "psycho-neurovegetative self-regulation mechanism" (servomechanisms). The authors show how such a conception, which has been borrowed from the servomechanism technique, may favourably influence the diagnosis and therapy of this condition. It has been tried in that way to link the two opposites: organic and functional causes. Some therapeutic approaches adapted to the structure of everyday general medical practice are suggested.
Anhidrotic concentrations 50 of four anticholinergics were determined in mice using an original skin palmar conductance method. Intra-peritoneal, intra-palmar and topical routes were compared. Relative anhidrotic activities according to the mode of administration of the different anticholinergics showed definite differences, e.g. hydroxyzine, which was the less active per i.p. route, was the most active per topical route. The method is likely to be a useful test for selecting the most active anticholinergic and its most efficient route of administration for the treatment of hyperhidrosis.
A local anaesthetic may be selected from amongst the two major groups of drugs of this type: amino-alcoyl-esters and amino-acylamides. In practice, three substances are available or will shortly be available in France: lignocaine, etidocaine and bupivacaine, thus limiting the choice. This choice is guided by the toxicity of the substance, its clinical effects and 1st side effects. 1-Toxicity depends upon the nature of the substance, the dose necessary to obtain analgesia and to prolong it for a sufficient time. 2-Amongst the clinical effects which should be noted in the choice of a local anaesthetic are the latent period before analgesia is obtained, the degree of sensory block, the degree of motor block and the duration of action. The three substances available are compared in relations to these parameters and in the light of the specific requirements of obstetric analgesia. The value of the addiction of adrenalin is discussed. 3-The side effects are those of the local anesthetic itself and of its possible association with adrenalin. On the basis of the various criteria mentioned, it would seem that the analgesic of choice for obstetric analgesia is bupivacaine used with or without adrenalin.
The activity of single neurons in the vestibular neuronal complex of midcollicular decerebrate, decerebellectomized cats were recorded and their responsiveness to iontophoretically applied histamine and other agents determined. The majority of the cells tested were inhibited by iontophoresis of histamine while 24% were excited by this agent. Neurons exhibiting inhibitory responses were widely distributed throughout the four vestibular nuclei and adjacent reticular formation whereas excitatory responses to histamine were obtained mainly in the region of the lateral vestibular nucleus. The H2-receptor blocking agents metiamide and cimetidine were examined as to their actions on spontaneously firing cells and cells affected by histamine. Metiamide was selective in blocking histamine-induced inhibition but not excitation while cimetidine was ineffective in blocking either response. These results suggest that histamine has both inhibitory and excitatory actions on brain stem neurons and metiamide is an effective antagonist of histamine-induced inhibition.
Head trauma is a possible cause of E.C.G. modifications originating in the brain and unresponsive to pure symptomatic cardial therapy. On the other hand, these perturbations react in a favourable way to treatment aimed at protecting the heart against descending nociceptive influx caused by brain injury. This report shows the results of a retrospective electrographic study of 220 unoperated patients with head injuries aged 15 to 30 years. A correlation is established between E.C.G. findings and depth of coma. The authors discuss their findings and suggest an etiologic pathology based on clinical and experimental factors.
In samples from nitrogen-fixing continuous cultures of strain CB756 of the cowpea type rhizobia (Rhizobium sp.), newly fixed NH+4 is in equiblibrium with the medium, from where it is assimilated by the glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase pathway. In samples from steady state cultures with different degrees of oxygen-limitation, nitrogenase activity was positively correlated with the biosynthetic of glutamine synthetase in cell free extracts. Also, activities in biosynthetic assays were positively correlated with activities in gamma-glutamyl transferase assays containing 60 mM Mg2+. Relative adenylylation of glutamine synthetase was conveniently measured in cell free extracts as the ratio of gamma-glutamyl transferase activities without and with addition of 60 mM Mg2+. Automatic control of oxygen supply was used to facilitate the study of transitions between steady-state continuous cultures with high and low nitrogenase activities. Adenylylation of glutamine synthetase and repression of nitrogenase activity in the presence of excess NH+4, were masked when oxygen strongly limited culture yield. Partial relief of the limitation in cultures supplied with 10 mM NH+4 produced early decline in nitrogenase activity and increase in relative adenylylation of glutamine synthetase. Decreased oxygen supply produced a rapid decline in relative adenylylation, followed by increased nitrogenase activity, supporting the concept that control of nitrogenase synthesis is modulated by glutamine synthetase adenylylation in these bacteria.
A system of digital measuring of the cardiac action potential was constructed in order to measure quickly and accurately the resting potential or maximum diastolic potential, overshoot potential, amplitude, time for 50% repolarization and time for 90% repolarization. This system consists of a dual-beam oscilloscope, a digital voltage meter, a digital interval meter and a simple circuit constructed by operational amplifiers. The measurement of the action potential was achieved by tracing only the resting potential or the maximum diastolic potential and the crest of the action potential on the oscilloscope using another beam. The time for measurement is usually 10-15 sec and errors in measurement were considered to be negligible. This system is considered to be useful for digital measurement of the action potential of various cardiac tissues. This system was applied for observation of effects of bufetolol, an adrenergic beta-receptor blocking drug on the action potential of the dog Purkinje fibres. Bufetolol (10(-5) M) caused a slight depolarization of the maximum diastolic potential, decreased overshoot potential, amplitude and maximum rate of rise, and shortened the time for 50% repolarization of the action potential. Bufetolol (10(-4) M) additionally prolonged the time for 90% repolarization.
Analogs of cyclic AMP elevate the synthesis of tyrosine aminotransferase (L-tyrosine:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase; EC 2.6.1.5) in cultured hepatoma cells and rat liver at a post-transcriptional level but have no discernible effect on total soluble protein synthesis. In order to determine whether cyclic AMP exerts its effect on a step before or after initiation of the synthesis of this enzyme, we have analyzed the ribosomal transit times for both the aminotransferase and total soluble protein in hepatoma cells incubated in the presence or absence of N(6),O(2)'-dibutyryl cyclic AMP. The time required for one ribosome to translate one subunit of the "average" soluble protein (transit time) was about 2 min in cells incubated with or without the cyclic AMP analog. In contrast, the transit time for tyrosine aminotransferase was found to be reduced from 5-8 min under basal conditions to as low as 45 sec after exposure to dibutyryl cyclic AMP. Although the degree of effect varied from experiment to experiment, the relative rate of aminotransferase nascent chain elongation was found to be proportional to the stimulation of its activity. In contrast, dexamethasone did not alter the rate of aminotransferase elongation even though it elevated enzyme activity between 5- and 10-fold. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that induction of tyrosine aminotransferase with cyclic AMP analogs occurs by stimulation of the rate at which ribosomes translate pre-existing mRNA in contrast to adrenal steroids which act by increasing the level of translatable mRNA coding for this enzyme.
The oxygen binding property of Hb Sawara (alphaA4 Asp replaced by Ala) was studied at different pH values with and without addition of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. The oxygen affinity of Hb Sawara was shown to be increased, the difference of the log P50 value between normal and abnormal hemoglobins being 0.37 at pH 7.0. Both the magnitude of the alkaline Bohr effect and the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate upon oxygen affinity of Hb Sawara were comparable to those of Hb A. The amino acid substitution of alanine for alphaA4 aspartic acid might result in the loss of a stabilizing force for ionic interaction between the alpha-amino group of NA (1)alpha1 valine and the alpha-carboxyl of HC3(141)alpha2 arginine in the deoxy-form.
Glucagon treatment of rats allowed the isolation of liver mitochondria with enhanced rates of pyruvate metabolism measured in either sucrose or KCl media. No change in the activity of the pyruvate carrier itself was apparent, but under metabolizing conditions, use of the inhibitor of pyruvate transport, alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate, demonstrated that pyruvate transport limited the rate of pyruvate metabolism. The maximum rate of transport under metabolizing conditions was enhanced by glucagon treatment. Problems involved in measuring the transmembrane pH gradient under metabolizing conditions are discussed and a variety of techniques are used to estimate the matrix pH. From the distribution of methylamine, ammonia and D-lactate and the Ki for inhibition by alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate it is concluded that the matrix is more acid than the medium and that the pH of the matrix rises after glucagon treatment. The increase in matrix pH stimulates pyruvate transport. The membrane potential, ATP concentration and O2 uptake were also increased under metabolizing conditions in glucagon-treated mitochondria. These changes were correlated with a stimulation of the respiratory chain which can be observed in uncoupled mitochondria [Yamazaki (1975) J. Biol. Chem. 250, 7924--7930]. The mitochondrial Mg2+ content (mean +/- S.E.M.) was increased from 38.8 +/- 1.2 (n = 26) to 47.5 +/- 2.0 (n = 26) ng-atoms/mg by glucagon and the K+ content from 126.7 +/- 10.3 (n = 19) ng-atoms/mg. This may represent a change in membrane potential induced by glucagon in vivo. The physiological significance of these results in the control of gluconeogenesis is discussed.
Milk samples from 100 lactating mothers in the 10 days following delivery have been analyzed for pH, sodium, and potassium. The sodium concentration was high in the first 5 days, mean 21 +/- 5 mmol/liter, but fell to a mean 15 mmol/liter by the end of the first week and 12 mmol/liter by the 10th day. A similar downward trend was shown for potassium with an initial mean concentration of 18.5 mmol/liter falling to 15 mmol/liter by the 10th day. The pH fluctuated widely from day to day through a range of 6.75-7.42 with a mean pH 7.09. Considerable variations were shown in individuals from day to day, and from the beginning to the end of feeds (Table 1). The relatively high sodium concentration in the first few days may be an important defense mechanism against dehydration and hyponatremia during a period of relative thirst and starvation. The variation in the pH and electrolyte content of human milk may be expected to have some influence on the acid-base and electrolyte status of the infant.
The effects of beta-adrenergic agonists and antagonists on cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation and parathyroid hormone (PTH) release from isolated bovine parathyroid cells have been determined. Beta-adrenergic agonists markedly stimulate cAMP production and PTH release with an order of potency (-) isoproterenol greater than (-)epinephrine greater than greater than (-) norepinephrine, suggesting a beta2-type adrenergically mediated process. Both effects are blocked by the beta-blocker propranolol with the strict stereospecificity expected for a beta-adrenergic response. Low calcium concentrations also stimulate cAMP accumulation, but the cyclic nucleotide response under these conditions is only 3% of that obtained with isoproterenol, raising the possibility that factors other than cAMP may control low calcium-mediated PTH release. The release of PTH by low calcium is also not blocked by propranolol, confirming the independence of the response to low ambient calcium from the beta-adrenergic receptor. These studies substantiate further the utility of the isolated parathyroid cell preparation for studying secretagogue-mediated alterations in cyclic nucleotides and hormone secretion. Isolated cells also also make feasible the direct identification of beta-adrenergic receptors in parathyroid cell membranes and whole cells.
The phosphorylation of pig liver pyruvate kinase by cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase has been studied. For comparison, mixed histone and a synthetic heptapeptide were also used as substrates. Protein kinase was purified by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, hydroxyapatite, and Sephadex G-200. The enzyme was stimulated by cyclic AMP with apparent Ka values of 2.5 and 0.8 x 10-7 M for pyruvate kinase and histone substrates, respectively. Divalent cations were essential for the activity of the protein kinase. Variation of the concentration of ATP resulted in approximately straight lines in Lineweaver-Burk plots for the phosphorylation of both pyruvate kinase and mixed histone. The apparent Km values for ATP were 21 and 11 muM, respectively. The phosphorylation rate increased with the concentration of pyruvate kinase even at a concentration of 2 muM pyruvate kinase. At a high ionic strength, the phosphorylation rate of both pyruvate kinase and histone decreased. The phosphorylation rate varied markedly with pH in imidazole/HC1 and Tris/HC1 buffers. At slightly alkaline pH values, pyruvate kinase was phosphorylated at a much higher rate than pH7, but this was not the case for histone. At pH 8.5, the phosphorylation rate of pyruvate kinase was 3.5 times the rate at pH 7, while the corresponding increase for the histone phosphorylation was 50 per cent. In potassium phosphate buffers, the phosphorylation rate of both substrates did not change significantly over the pH range studied. Arrhenius' plots of the protein kinase reaction resulted in a break at about 10 degrees when pyruvate kinase was used as substrate, whereas a straight line was obtained when using histone. The negative allosteric effectors of pyruvate kinase, alanine, and phenylalanine, increased the phosphorylation rate of pyruvate kinase at pH 8 by 50 and 120 per cent, respectively. The same effectors did not influence the phosphorylation rate of mixed histone or a synthetic heptapeptide. It is concluded that the conformations adopted by pyruvate kinase in the presence of allosteric inhibitors make it a better substrate for the protein kinase.
Microcapsules of sodium phenobarbitone, with a wall of ethyl cellulose, have been prepared. The size distribution was determined by use of standard sieves and the effect of coreWALL ratio noted. Release of the drug into an aqueous medium was studied. The release pattern was found to have similar characteristics to the release of a drug from an insoluble porous matrix.
The fluid and cellular phases of the inflammatory response were measured using a technique employing subcutaneous implantation of polyurethane foam cubes impregnated with heat-killed Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Fluribiprofen and prednisolone were equipotent and were capable of almost completely suppressing fluid and cellular responses, while alclofenac was less potent at nontoxic dose levels. Study of the patterns of cellular exudation by image analysing computer showed that alcofenac appears unique in that it produces a well-defined cell-free zone between the edge of the implanted cubes and a band of neutrophil polymorphs within the cubes.
Bio Rex 70 column chromatography and high voltage paper electrophoresis were used to fractionate and define the reaction products of thiamin-tannic acid and thiamin-tea mixtures. Fractions separated indicated the presence of (a) thiamin-tannic acid adduct(s) and several modified forms of thiamin among the products. Using radioactive thiamin and determining the intact form by scintillation counting, the extent of thiamin modification under various conditions was compared with previous results as determined by the thiochrome method. The elution profile of the thiamin-tea mixture and the electrophoretogram showed features similar to those of the thiamin-tannic acid mixture. The effectiveness of the tea extract and tannic acid in modifying thiamin was compared. Ascorbic acid was found to protect the modification of thiamin by tannic acid, not only at acidic pH as previously found, but also at neutral pH, thus making vitamin C a strong candidate for the protection of thiamin in the alimentary system.
A high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of low levels (less than 1 microgram/ml) of the basic metabolite of bezitramide, 1-(4-piperidinyl)-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazol-2-one, in human urine is described. Special attention is given to the separation from the basic metabolite of droperidol, a drug frequently co-administered with bezitramide.
An in vitro fecal incubation system was used to demonstrate how lactulose influences ammonia metabolism in the colon. Lactulose and other fermentable substrates (glucose, mannitol, and sorbitol), pH and organic acid were varied independently so that their different effects could be determined. Fermentable substrate caused a fall in ammonia concentration during the period of fermentation. Acidification to pH 5.0 or less, with hydrochloric acid or a lactic-acetic acid mixture, significantly reduced ammonia generation, but unlike fermentable substrates, did not lower the existing ammonia concentration. The lactic-acetic acid mixture did not reduce ammonia generation significantly below that found with acidification by hydrochloric acid. The effect of lactulose in reducing ammonia concentration is attributed to its role as a bacterial substrate in either increasing bacterial assimilation of ammonia or reducing deamination of nitrogenous compounds. The effect of low pH in reducing generation of ammonia appears to be part of a general reduction in bacterial metabolism.
A methodological concept for measuring anxiety states and changes in anxiety states in clinical studies with anxiolytic substances is presented: Effectivity should be evaluated on several levels which include emotions, objects of anxiety, psychophysiology, biochemistry, and observed behavior. This test concept is based on new knowledge from behavior psychology, learning theory, psychology of testing, psychophysiology, biochemistry, neuroendocrinology, and psychiatry. In diagrams, important mechanisms of thr origin of experimental, stress-induced and pathological anxiety states are depicted. The point is stressed that anxiety is situational and fluctuates.
The comprehensive treatment of schizophrenia requires the full resources of a clinical team that is able to offer treatment for the acute psychotic state in a hospital environment, and appropriate rehabilitation following resolution of the florid symptoms. Following a second or subsequent relapse, maintenance therapy with long-acting injections of depot antipsychotics will be required for an unknown period. Although drugs form an essential part of all treatments, it is essential to examine the environment for precipitating factors and to involve the patient's family in the rehabilitation. Recent studies have reported that some patients still have a relatively poor prognosis; although this proportion may be in the minority, the strain on the whole family of an even moderately handicapped patient can be enormous, and it is important to examine the needs of the whole family in evaluating care within the community. The effect of antipsychotic drugs is much wider that the mere control of acute symptoms and can influence the patterns of social behaviour and rehabilitation, in addition to offering protection against stress. The proper use of depot injections requires that they be kept under constant review. The current widespread practice of prescribing anti-cholinergic drugs on a prophylactic basis, or even as the inital treatment of extrapyramidal side-effects, needs revision.
Vaccinia virus propagated in rotated cultures of RK13 cells was purified by sucrose density gradient zonal centrifugation. The purified virus was dissociated with sodium dodecyl sulfate end its protein composition analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The protein composition of the virion envelope, isolated by the non-ionic detergent Nonidet P-40, was also determined.
The authors have developed a technique of sampling and analysis of capillary blood which they describe here. Applied to 34 patients, it gives excellent correlations, both for PO2-PCO2 and pH. The advantages of capillary methods and their disadvantages are discussed.
Thermo- and acid-stable serine proteases inhibitor from the rabbit blood serum (TASPI) was shown to inhibit the human peripheral blood lymphocytes transformation stimulated by phytohemagglutinin (PHA) or concanavalin A. The extent of inhibition depended on the concentration of the preparation and its specific activity. The maximal inhibition of lymphocytes proliferation constituted 50 to 70%. TASPI displayed no cytotoxic activity. Considerably more effective inhibition was demonstrated by TASPI addition to the culture medium 24 hours after the addition of PHA. The antiprotease activity of crude human serum and that inactivated under different conditions is described. The results obtained suggest the participation of TASPI in the control of biological activity of the lymphoid tissue cells.
Carp liver was fractionated by differential and density gradient centrifugation and assayed for enzymes of purine catabolism. While urate oxidase is an exclusively peroxisomal enzyme, only a very small percentage of the enzymes xanthine oxidase, allantoinase and allantoicase is associated with subcellular or ganelle fractions. There is no general purine catabolizing subcellular compartment. There is some but not yet conclusive evidence for the assumption that urate oxidase is a membrane bound enzyme.
1. End-plate currents have been studied in frog cutaneus pectoris nerve-muscle preparations mounted in continuously flowing solution, using the voltage clamp technique. 2. Exposure of the muscle to 1 mM-dithiothreitol reduced the amplitude of end-plate currents by a factor of 2.7 (mean; range 1.6-3.4; twelve fibres). 3. 1 mM-dithiothreitol also caused a 2.7-fold (2.3-3.1) increase in the rate of decay, and a 1.4-fold (1.3-1.6) decrease in the time to peak of end-plate currents. During the onset of action of dithiothreitol, there was little or no indication of departure of end-plate current decay from a simple exponential. 4. Dithiothreitol actions on amplitude and decay of end-plate currents developed with similar time courses and both effects were slower in onset at pH 7.2 than at pH 8.5. 5. The actions of dithiothreitol were reversed by exposure of the muscle to 1 mM-5,5'-dithio-bis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid). 6. Following dithiothreitol treatment, the rates of decay of end-plate currents continued to depend on membrane potential; there was little or no change in the slope of the relation between in (rate of decay) and membrane potential, consistent with little or no change in the dipole moment of a gating molecule for ion channels. 7. Dithiothreitol changed the relation between peak end-plate current and membrane potential, so that peak conductance increased at more negative membrane potentials; this finding could be accounted for in terms of the closure of ion-channel gates becoming faster though remaining voltage-sensitive after exposure to dithiothreitol. 8. It is concluded that dithiothreitol causes changes in the kinetics of gating of ion channels associated with receptors and that these changes accompany changes in the binding of ACh to receptors.
Sodium chloride activates the tripolyphosphatase of the muscle tissue. Optimum activity occurs at 4--5 percent NaC1. The increase in activity seems to be due to the effect of C1-ions. NaC1 inhibits the tripolyphosphatase activity of muscle press juice. NaC1 decreases the total diphosphatase activity of muscle tissue as well as the diphosphatase activity of muscle press juice. Addition of NaC1 to pre-rigor muscle increases the ultimate pH value (post-rigor-muscle) and, consequently, causes a lower tripolyphosphatase activity and a higher diphosphatase activity than is observed, when NaC1 is added to the post-rigor muscle.
For determination of the activity of this enzyme (EC 4.2.1.24) in blood, pH dependency was evaluated by using whole blood and washed erythrocytes. The effects of assay methods, original and final pH, and use of sodium or potassium phosphate buffer were examined. The pattern of pH dependency differed for whole blood and washed erythrocytes, whether blood from normal or lead-exposed subjects was examined. The pH optimum for the activity in erythrocytes from lead-exposed subjects was the same as for the normal persons if the concentration of lead in blood did not exceed 80 microgram/100 g of whole blood. Hemolyzing blood by placing it on solid CO2 decreases the activity.
1. Intracellular pH (pH(i)) of surface fibres of the mouse soleus muscle was measured in vitro by recessed-tip pH-sensitive micro-electrodes. pH(i) was displaced in an acid direction by removal of external (NH(4))(2)SO(4) after a short exposure, and the mechanism of recovery from this acidification was investigated.2. Removal of external K caused a very slow acidification (probably due to the decreasing Na gradient) but had no effect on the rate of pH(i) recovery following acidification. This indicates that K(+)-H(+) exchange is not involved in the pH(i) regulating system.3. Short applications of 10(-4)M ouabain had no obvious effect on pH(i) and did not alter the rate of pH(i) recovery following acidification. This suggests that there is no direct connexion between the regulation of pH(i) and the Na pump.4. Reduction of external Ca from 10 to 1 mM caused a transient fall in pH(i), but the rate of pH(i) recovery following acidification was unaffected. This suggests that Ca(2+)-H(+) exchange is not involved in the pH(i) regulating system.5. An 11% reduction in external Na caused a significant slowing of pH(i) recovery following acidification. 90% or complete removal of external Na almost stopped pH(i) recovery. This suggests that Na(+)-H(+) exchange is involved in pH(i) regulation.6. Amiloride (10(-4)M) reversibly reduced the rate of pH(i) recovery to much the same extent as removal of external Na. Its effect was not additive to that of removal of external Na.7. Internal Na ion concentration ([Na(+)](i)), measured using Na(+)-sensitive micro-electrodes, fell on application of (NH(4))(2)SO(4) and increased on its removal. The increase transiently raised [Na(+)](i) above the level recorded before (NH(4))(2)SO(4) application. This overshoot of [Na(+)](i) was almost completely inhibited by amiloride. This is consistent with the involvement of Na(+)-H(+) exchange in the pH(i) regulating system.8. Removal of external CO(2) or application of SITS (10(-4)M) caused some slowing of the rate of pH(i) recovery following acidification by removal of (NH(4))(2)SO(4). The effect of SITS was additive to that of Na-free Ringer or amiloride. These results suggest that Cl(-)-HCO(3) (-) exchange is also involved in the pH(i) regulating system and that it is a separate mechanism. Under the conditions used, Cl(-)-HCO(3) (-) exchange formed about 20% of the pH(i) regulating system.9. Decreasing the temperature from 37 to 28 degrees C not only caused an increase in pH(i), but also considerably slowed the rate of pH(i) recovery following acidification. We have calculated a Q(10) for Na(+)-H(+) exchange of 1.4 and for Cl(-)-HCO(3) (-) exchange, 6.9.10. We conclude that the pH(i) regulating system is comprised of two separate ionic exchange mechanisms. The major mechanism is Na(+)-H(+) exchange, which is probably driven by the transmembrane Na gradient. The other mechanism is Cl(-)-HCO(3) (-) exchange, which probably requires metabolic energy.
In a joint study of five laboratories the immunochemical tube test for pregnancy 'Roche', which uses the principle of the latex-agglutination inhibition test, was examined. A total of 1117 samples, complemented by a number of laboratory studies, proved that the test is specific, reproducible and low in interference with a sensitivity of 900-1000 U/l HCG. It is a simple test, the results can be easily read after 90 minutes. pH of the urine sample, protein, urea or calcium content, presence of oral contraceptives, detergents, disinfectants or organic solvents cause no or very little interference.
The present study comprises a pathological review of 18 necropsy cases with nonspecific aorto-arteritis (Takayasu's disease), autopsied at the Instituto Nacional de Cardiologa of Mexico up to 1976. There were 11 females and 7 males with an average age at the time of death of 21.5 years. A comparison according to the distribution and extention of arterial lesions disclosed that our cases are often less classical than those described from Japan. The principal arterial changes were stenosis, occlusion, dilatation and aneurysm formation in the aorta, its branches and main pulmonary artery. More often than not the aorta was extensively involved. The aortic arch syndrome and renovascular hypertension were almost equally present in this serie and an unusual high incidence of coronary artery involvement (33%) leading to myocardial infarction (50%) also was observed. The significance of the intrapulmonary vascular changes in Takayasu's arteritis is discussed.
A complex intermediate of the copper (II) ion with the ascorbate anion was detected by using a rapid scanning spectrophotometer with a stopped-flow apparatus. The intermediate was confirmed to be a copper (II) complex ion by electron paramagnetic resonance measurements. The dependence of the absorbance of the complex on the concentrations of reactants and on the pH of the reaction solutions indicates that the complex is Cu(II)Ha+ where Ha is the ascorbate anion ligand. The absorption maximum, the molar absorption coefficient, and the formation constant of the complex are 410 nm, 33 +/- 1 M-1 cm-1 at 420nm, and 42 +/- 6 M-1, respectively. The values are comparable to those in the other metal complexes of the ascorbate anion.
The prescribing of anxiolytics is often a hit-and-miss process. Current knowledge is examined to encourage a more rational use of such drugs. Because the common symptoms occur in a great array of illnesses, diagnosis is of first importance. For the transient situational disturbance drugs may be unnecessary or may be used merely for a day or two. If the anxiety state persists for a month or so the illness might be termed an anxiety neurosis and if there is no accompanying depression, a short course of benzodiazepine may be of value. With depression present to more than a mild degree as part of the neurosis the tricyclic antidepressant doxepin usually achieves better results than a benzodiazepine. Imipramine can be helpful for the phobic anxiety syndrome and monoamine-oxidase inhibitors can be of separate utility. If the anxiety and depression occur in the context of alcoholism, thioridazine and amitriptyline have certain advantages. There is very little place for phenothiazines or other antipsychotic agents in low doses in the therapy of anxiety except for thioridazine in the above indication.
Three Trichinella strains from Swiss wild foxes (Vulpes vulpes) were tested in crossbreeding experiments with Trichinella spiralis, T. nativa and T. nelsoni using white mice as laboratory animals. The results demonstrated that T. nelsoni Britov et Boev 1972 is the etiologic agent of sylvatic trichinellosis in Switzerland. Former isolations of these species were successful in materials from East and South Africa, USSR (Republics of Tadzhikistan, Turkmenia and Kazakhstan) and Bulgaria. The area of T. nelsoni covers probably the whole southern part of the Old World up to the 48th degree of northern latitude.
Very low levels of arylsulfatase A (ASA) have been found in the leukocytes of healthy members of a metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) family. The cerebroside sulfate sulfatase (CSS) activities in the same individuals are about 10% of the control level. Arguments favoring a dominant mutation different from that of classical MLD are presented. This report reinforces the relationship between the two enzymatic activities.
Plaques were formed by Getah virus (an Alphavirus) which had been grown in BHK cells and passaged once in Culex cells before inoculation of Culex cell cultures. Plaques were not produced either by Getah or Japanese encephalitis (JE) viruses which had been passaged only in BHK cells. Plaque counts in Culex cell monolayers were almost the same as in BHK cells.
The effect of carbon monoxide exposure on the in vivo metabolism  of zoxazolamine in normal (corn oil-treated) and 3,4-benzpyrene- and 3-methylcholanthrene-treated, immature, male rats was examined. Pre-exposure of the animals for 90 min followed by determination of the duration of drug action while the animals were maintained in the experimental atmosphere resulted in a qualitative difference in response between normal and polycyclic hydrocarbon-treated animals over the concentration range of 150-450 ppm CO. Corn oil-treated animals demonstrated a decreased duration of drug action when exposed to CO, indicating an increase in the bioavailability of drug for metabolism which may be a result of an increase in liver perfusion rates. In contrast, polycyclic hydrocarbon-treated animals demonstrated an increased duration of drug action on exposure to CO. The qualitative difference in response to CO exposure in the two groups of animals may be due to differences in the sensitivity of cytochrome P-450 and cytochrome P-448 with respect to complexing with CO or to lowered intracellular PO2; or to differences in the dependency on blood flow of the rate of in vivo metabolism of zoxazolamine.
Six enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia coli produced variable levels of heat-stable enterotoxin (ST) when grown under pH control at 8.5 in a simple synthetic medium containing neither amino acids nor vitamins. Bacterial growth and ST production were at levels as high as or higher than those observed in complex media. ST elaboration was detectable in the early logarithmic phase of growth and appeared to be related to disappearance of glucose in the growth medium. The results of this study did not suggest pH-dependent release of ST. Imposition of pH control in complex media resulted in increased growth rates, earlier detectable ST synthesis, and elevated levels of ST. In synthetic medium, attainment of the stationary growth phase was followed by a significant decrease in culture density and a concomitant increase in ST. Cellular autolysis experiments revealed that as much as 20% of the total ST activity was present in a cell-associated form.
"Physician extenders" of various types have been produced in the past few years. The University of Alabama in Birmingham has trained surgeon's assistants over the past 9 years, graduating 53 individuals after a 2-year course of didactic, laboratory, and clinical instruction. The graduates have performed satisfactorily, working with surgeons in the community setting and as part of highly specialized teams in large medical centers. One third work in general surgery, one third in cardiovascular thoracic surgery, and one third in other special areas. The authors conclude that these individuals will play an increasing role in allowing surgical therapy to be delivered in an efficient and effective manner.
The molecular weight of hemoglobin (III) in monolayers on aqueous subsolutions has been determined by measuring the surface pressure as a function of the protein surface concentration. The dissociation equilibrium between tetrameric and dimeric hemoglobin (III) was determined for spread as well as adsorbed monolayers. The results were compared with analogous measurements in solution. It was found that the numerical value and the pH dependence of the dissociation constant were similar both in the bulk and in the surface phase of the solution. From these findings it was concluded that the native conformation of hemoglobin (III) is retained after adsorption at aqueous surface.
1. Oxidation of pyruvate by rat brain mitochondria was stimulated in state 3 by malate or succinate up to 250 nmoles O2/mg protein/min. Oxidation of malate, succinate, 2-oxoglutarate or glutamate as the sole substrates, was 1/4 - 1/5 that observed with pyruvate. 2. Maximum oxygen consumption in state 3 was observed at pH 6.90 - 7.20, whereas in state 4 it was not affected by changes in pH. 3. In state 4, in the absence of exogenous acceptor or acetyl residues, acetate was the main oxidation product, corresponding to about 80% of the amount of pyruvate utilized. Malate did not affect the rate of pyruvate utilization but lowered acetate concentration and raised concentration of citrate and 2-oxoglutarate. 4. In state 3, pyruvate and malate were converted mainly to 2-oxoglutarate, its concentration being three times as high as that of citrate. 5. Formation of citrate, 2-oxoglutarate and acetate from pyruvate in brain is considered as a function of availability of the acceptor of acetyl residues and the energy state of mitochondrion.
The prey-catching behavior of ferrets (Putorius furo L.) consists mainly of instinctive behavior patterns, which can be elicited only through their releaser. Then they are performed stereotypically. To get information concerning the central background and the hierarchical structure of this behavior the neuroleptics Haloperidol (0.14 mg/kg), Clozapine (10 mg/kg) and Chlorpromazine (4 mg/kg) were injected i.m. under controlled conditions. In a conditioning experiment the reactivity of the animals was examined. This conditioned reaction was strongly decreased by the drugs. The reaction to the natural stimulus the prey was changed, but not suppressed. The modification of the predatory behavior was manifedsted in an "improvement" of orientation reactions when pursuing the prey and in a better placement of bites. This effect, most evident with Haloperidol, is possibly due to the specific neuroleptic component of the substances. A delay in approaching the prey, or even the total suppression of the prey-catching behavior is suggested to be due to a sedative component which was most obvious in some experiments with Clozapine. On the other hand, there are behavioral elements like the use of paws which are not effected by the neuroleptics. From these and other observations, it is concluded, that the predatory behavior of the ferret has a hierarchically organisated structure. Further it is suggested that some functional connected parts of the behavior have distinct central representation, for they are not influenced in the same way by these drugs.
We have studied a new vaccine of ribosomal nature associated with glycoprotein cell walls from Klebsiella pneumoniae which served as an immunoadjuvant. Thus vaccine was administered by the aerosol route to working men free of any important disease, especially of respiratory disease. A total of 104 men working for the Commissariat  l'Energie Atomique, all volunteers, were randomly placed into two groups. During the first period, 51 patients (group I) were vaccinated three times a week during 5 weeks, and the second group was used as control. During the second period, which started on day 225, the control group received the vaccine, and the first group was revaccinated. Results of this experience show a significant difference in the immunity of the two groups. The specific antibodies increased with vaccination as illustrated by chi-square test (Yates correction), which corresponds to an independent probability equal to 0 (P = 0.5 X 10-4).
Vaccine strains of influenza A virus inhibited the growth of ascitic tumour cells and outbred rats or inbred mice. The infected tumour bearers had an enhanced immune response to viral and specific tumour antigens. These phenomena are apparently due to the formation of complexes of both antigens on cell membranes and increased immunogenicity of such complexes.
The second messengers cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in several organs appear to coordinate those molecular events which are responsible for specialized organ function. As a result of balanced cell proliferation and specialization, epidermis functions by terminal specialization which provides a barrier between man and environment. Since the epidermal component of psoriasis is a classic example of deranged epidermal homeostasis, which has a low level of cyclic AMP and a high level of cyclic GMP, it seems reasonable that rebalancing these cyclic nucleotides might ultimately be a safe and effective therapy for psoriasis and other proliferative skin diseases.
To study the role of carbonic anhydrase in the CSF [HCO3] increase in respiratory acidosis and its effect on brain ammonia, anesthetized rats were subjected to hypercapnia (7% CO2) for 2 hours. The animals received periodic intraventricular injections of either 'mock' CSF or 'mock' CSF and acetazolamide for 45 minutes prior and during hypercapnia when: (a) plasma [HCO3-] was allowed to increase normally and (2) plasma [HCO3] increase was prevented by i.v. HC1 infusion, CSF [HCO3] increased 8.5 mM/L after 2 hours of hypercapnia (delta PCO2 40) in the rats with intraventricular 'mock' CSF injections, and only 6 mM/L in the animals with acetazolamide injections. CSF [HCO3-] increased 7 mM/L during hypercapnia and HCl infusion with intraventricular 'mock' CSF injections, but only 2 mM/L with acetazolamide injections. Changes in total brain CO2 (increase) and brain glutamic acid (decrease) in hypercapnia were not affected by intraventricular acetazolamide and i.v. HCl. The increase of brain NH4+ and glutamine in hypercapnia was reduced in these conditions. It is concluded that there are at least two sources for the CSF [HCO3-] increase in hypercapnia; one formed in the CNS and dependent on carbonic anhydrase, and the other derived from plasma [HCO3-] increase.
Human erythrocyte 'ghosts' were solubilized in 0.5% (w/v) sodium dodecyl sulphate at pH 4.0(I = 0.012 mol/I). At a loading of 1-2 mg of protein/ml of column volume, all of membrane proteins were adsorbed to a column of CPAD [N-(3-carboxypropionyl)-aminodecyl]-Sepharose at pH 4.0 (I = 0-012 mol/1) and room temperature (22 degrees C). Many proteins were subsequently desorbed by raising the pH or by including sodium dodecyl sulphate continuously in the eluting buffer. Experiments with a series of adsorbents homologous with CPAD-Sepharose, in which the length of the hydrocarbon chain was varied, provided strong evidence of hydrophobic interactions, in addition to ionic interactions, in the binding of these proteins to CPAD-Sepharose. Elution with increasing-pH gradients at different concentrations of sodium dodecyl sulphate showed that glycophorin (the major sialoglycoprotein) was eluted in the void volume, at recoveries close to 100%, when the detergent concentration was greater than or equal to 0.3% (w/v). Protein E, the major protein, was desorbed late in the pH gradient even at a high (0.5%, w/v) concentration of the detergent, and was always incompletely desorbed, the maximum recovery recorded being 40%. Spectrin (the high-molecular-weight polypeptide pair) did not behave in a well-defined manner, and was found widely distributed among the effluent fractions under all the conditions that were tested.
Concentrations of methaqualone have been measured in the serum of five male human subjects receiving five consecutive evening doses of a combination formulation containing methaqualone (250 mg), carbromal (300 mg) and benactyzine (0.33 mg) in each tablet. After administration of the first dose, mean peak serum concentrations of methaqualone (1.2 mug/ml) occurred at 3 h. After obtaining peak levels, mean concentrations of methaqualone declined rapidly during the next 6 h and thereafter more slowly during the next 18 h. After administration of the last (fifth) dose, mean peak serum concentrations of methaqualone (1.9 mug/ml; 1.5 mug/ml above the predose level) occurred at 2 h. After attaining peak levels, mean concentrations of methaqualone declined rapidly during the next 6 h, and thereafter more slowly, with a half-life of approximately 10 h. Mean concentrations of methaqualone in serum samples 24 h after the second, third, fourth or fifth doses were not significantly different (0.3 mug/ml - 0.6 mug/ml) during this period of dosing. This suggests that significant accumulation of methaqualone in the serum did not occur during a period of five consecutive evening doses of the combination formulation.
The study of the biological characteristics of ten clones, isolated from plaque, of vaccinia virus has made evident that two of these characteristics--the capacity to multiply at 40 degrees C and the type of CPE in animal cell cultures--can be used as genetic markers of neuropathogenicity, valued in relationship to the property to induce demyelinating encephalitis in mice injected intracerebrally or intravenously. The most neurovirulent clones demonstrated high capacity to multiply at 40 degrees C and lytic CPE; the clones, that did not have (or had at a very low level) encephalitogenic activity in mice, presented poor capacity to multiply at 40 degrees C and CPE of syncytial type. The variation of the pH of the cell culture medium enhances the difference of CPE induced by clones that had different levels of neuropathogenicity. The results are discussed in relation to their use in improving the smallpox vaccine.
Study of 1303 cases of male sub-fertility led to a certain number of practical conclusions: - From a diagnostic viewpoint, the "fertility" of an individual, which is difficult to assess, depends more on the motility than the number of spermatozoa. This is most faithfully reflected in the crossed penetration test which defines the quality of penetration of a control mucus. The value of electron microscopic cytological study in the case of total asthenospermia or major monomorphous teratospermia, reflecting an irreversible constitutional abnormality of the ultrastructure of the spermatozoon, is emphasised. - From a therapeutic viewpoint, recent progress has involved the technique of surgical treatment for varicocoele as well as hormone therapy. It is essential not to neglect empirical "minor aids" indicated in the case of unexplained abnormalities (homologous artifical insemination in the case of abnormalities in the volume of the ejaculate, retard androgen therapy in the case of polyzoospermia). - From a prognostic viewpoint. The distinction must be drawn between aetiologies of good prognosis (80% of our success) responsible for transient abnormalities in spermatogenesis (infections, metabolic disturbances, varicocoele) and aetiologies with an unfavourable prognosis since they cause tubulopathies of greater or lesser severity with a lesional impairment of spermatogenesis.
Tye specific T antigen formation has been demonstrated in primary and secondary chick embryo cells (CEC) infected with adenovirus type 12. The frequency of cells synthesizing T antigen was closely dependent on the multiplicity of infection (MOI). At a MOI of 2.85 TCD50 per cell, T antigen was formed in 50% of cells. Cycloheximide inhibited T antigen formation while cytosine arabinoside had no such effect. CEC infected with adenovirus 12 produced interferon and T antigen, both appearing early and at about the same time of infection Exogenous chick interferon had no inhibitory effect on the formation of T antigen. In adenovirus 12-infected CEC, virus specific structural antigen could not be detected.
The total activities of sucrase, trehalase, amino-peptidase, and gamma-glutamyltransferase in the isolated brush border of the entire small bowel are reduced to 35, 55, 33, and 21 per cent, respectively, of control values (p less than 0.001) 2 hours after a 45 minute occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery. Since brush border proteins are also reduced by ischemia to 42 per cent of control, enzymatic activity when expressed as U/mg protein is significantly reduced only in the case of gamma-glutamyltransferase, to 48 per cent of control.
Treatment of Escherichia coli elongation factor G with the arginine reagent, 2,3-butanedione, leads to the inactivation of the enzyme when performed in sodium borate buffers. The inhibition follows pseudo-first-order kinetics until 95% of the activity has been lost and further incubation results in complete inhibiton. Removal of the borate by exhaustive dialysis results in the restoration of approximately 85% of the original activity. The pH dependence of the reaction suggests that the ionization of a group in the protein with a pKa of approximately 8.8 facilitates the reaction with butanedione. A reaction order of 1.01 +/- 0.13 was calculated for the inhibition reaction, indicating that the incorporation of one butanedione per elongation factor G results in the inactivation of the enzyme. The kinetics of inhibition in the presence of GTP indicate that the elongation factor G-GTP complex is refractory to butanedione inhibiton. Elongation factor G which has been partially inactivated by butanedione has the same apparent Km for GTP as does the native enzyme. These results indicate that elongation factor G contains only one essential arginine residue which is reactive with butanedione and that this residue is located at its nucleotide binding site.
Using artificial electron donors and acceptors, it is shown here that the major HCO3- effect in the Hill reaction is after the "primary" electron acceptor (Q) of Photosystem II and before the site of action of 2,5-dibromo-3-methyl-6-isopropyl-p-benzoquinone (at the plastoquinone pool). Chloroplasts in the presence of both 3-(3',4'-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea, which blocks electron flow from the reduced primary acdeptor Q- to the plastoquinone pool, and silicomolybdate, which accepts electrons from Q-, show no significant bicarbonate stimulation of electron flow. However, a 6-7 fold stimulation is clearly observed when oxidized diaminodurene, as an electron acceptor, and dibromothymoquinone, as an inhibitor of electron flow beyond the plastoquinone pool, are used. In the same chloroplast preparation no measurable effect of bicarbonate is observed in a Photosystem I reaction as monitored by electron flow from reduced diaminodurene to methyl viologen in the presence of 3- (3',4'-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea. The insensitivity of the bicarbonate effect to uncouplers of photophosphorylation and the dependence of this effect on the presence of a weak acid anion and on external pH are also reported.
Recent rural health research may be examined in two ways: needs and solutions. A definition of needs requires an evaluation of the social factors that affect the expectations and the behavior of both the provider and the consumer. Three types of solutions should be considered: the appropriate utilization of manpower, including the efforts to influence physician location and specialty distribution, new health practitioners, and team approaches; the new technology for transportation and communication; and the organization of new delivery systems. Two areas of rural health research that need more attention are program evaluation and financial planning.
The peripherally acting anticholinergic drug isopropamide (0.02 mg/kg s.c.) is shown to produce a discriminative stimulus complex in rats. In rats trained to discriminate isopropamide from saline, dexetimide and methylscopolamine were generalized with isopropamide treatment. The results indicate that drug discrimination learning does not necessarily require a central drug action.
The capacity of enteric bacteria (E. coli, Salmonella, Pseudomonas, Shigella and Klebsiella) to catalyze the covalent binding of benzo(a)pyrene (BP), cholic acid, deoxycholic acid and cholesterol was investigated. In general, these bacteria were incapable of activating BP to a covalently bound product with calf thymus DNA. Metabolism studies of BP by fluorometric assay failed to indicate any accumulation of BP-3-hydroxy in the incubation medium. Detailed metabolic investigation with high-pressure liquid chromatography indicated that these bacteria did not produce any known metabolites which are formed by mammalian systems. However, radioactivity was detected in all fractions, suggesting that the bacteria were readily metabolizing BP into smaller molecules for energy and carbon sources. Although the enteric bacteria did not metabolize BP into known metabolites, some were capable of activating cholesterol, cholic acid and deoxycholic acid to covalently bound products with DNA. The binding data with cholesterol and bile acids also suggested that the binding process required NADPH as a cofactor because binding level was rather low without NADPH.
The effects of the histamine H2-receptor inhibitor metiamide on histamine-stimulated canine bile flow and gastric hydrogen ion output were evaluated. Histamine was found to stimulate bile volume in doses comparable to those that stimulated gastric hydrogen ion output; both responses appeared to have the same maximal response dose, 150 mug/kg per h. Metiamide alone did not alter hepatic bile flow. Administration of metiamide, 2 mg/kg per h, along with various doses of histamine demonstrated that the H2-receptor antagonist decreased bile volume and gastric hydrogen ion output from values obtained with histamine administration alone. The D50 of histamine for bile flow was 16.3 mug/kg per h and the D50 for hydrogen ion output was 44.2 mug/kg per h, Kinetic analysis suggests that the decrease in histamine-stimulated hydrogen ion output produced by metiamide is the result of competitive inhibition; the decrease in histamine-stimulated bile volume by metiamide which is different from the hydrogen ion inhibition, suggests noncompetitive inhibition. These data indicate that the mechanism of histamine choleresis is different from the mechanism of histamine-stimulated gastric acid output and that histamine-stimulated bile flow may not be the result of direct hormone-receptor interaction.
Particulate preparations from epimastigote forms of Trypanosoma cruzi contain an adenylyl cyclase (ATP pyrophosphate-lyase (cyclizing), EC 4.6.1.1) which could be stored at --20 degree C and resisted 5 cycles of freezing and thawing over 10 days without significant loss of activity. The enzyme reaction strictly required Mn2+, had a pH optimum of 7.7 and was not inhibited or stimulated by NaF. Particles prepared in the presence of 10 mM Mn2+ or Mg2+ were 3--4 times more active than particles prepared in the absence of these cations. However, Mg2+ could not substitute for Mn2+ during enzyme assay nor did it enhance activity in the presence of saturating concentrations of Mn2+. The binary complex Mn - ATP2- was shown to be the true substrate for the adenylyl cyclase and free ATP was highly inhibitory. Plots of enzyme activity against equimolar concentrations of ATP - Mn gave sigmoid curves with n values in Hill plots ranging between 1.5 and 2.0. Excess Mn2+ activated the cyclase catalyzed reaction at low but not at high concentrations of ATP - Mn. In the presence of an excess of 1 mM Mn2+, which transforms 97% of the added ATP to productive Mn - ATP2- complex, the substrate saturation curve assumed a Michaelian pattern with an apparent Km =0.2 mM.
We measured the volume and pH of the gastric content of 21 out-patients and 21 in-patients under general anaesthesia. Gastric tubes were inserted after induction of anaesthesia, and gastric fluids were withdrawn for pH determinations. Gastric volumes were measured by a dilution technique using polyethylene glycol as the indicator and also by measurement of the volume aspirated through a gastrict tube. Out-patients had a mean gastric volume of 69 +/- 17 ml while in-patients had a mean volume of 33 +/- 4 ml. The average gastric pH for the out-patients was 1.8 +/- 0.2 and for the in-patients 2.0 +/- 0.3. Four out-patients had more than 75 ml of gastric fluid of pH less than 2.0. Aspiration through a gastrict tube did not empty the stomach completely and the volume thus obtained gave a falsely low estimate of the gastric volume.
To test the association of small bile duct destructive lesions in the liver with acute graft-versus-host disease,  a blind (coded) histological study was done comparing liver tissue from three groups of dogs given 1,200 R of total-body irradiation: one not given marrow infusions after irradiation, another given autologous hemopoietic grafts, and a third given marrow grafts from DLA-nonidentical unrelated donors. The dogs with unrelated grafts all developed graft-versus-host disease, and their liver histology was distinguished from that of the dogs in the other two groups by three findings: (1) extensive small bile ductule necrosis and atypia; (2) infiltrates of mononuclear cells around and in ductules; and (3) individual hepatocyte necrosis scattered throughout the lobules. Thus, bile duct lesions appear to be a good marker for assessing the presence and severity of hepatic graft-versus-host disease in dogs.
The X-ray procedure for estimation of the degree of crystallinity in digoxin is based upon measurement of the total X-ray scattering and the scattering from crystalline regions of the drug. The infrared procedures are based upon measurement of the peak height ratios, 1775/1618 and 3095/1618 cm-1. Correlation between results obtained by the two methods is good. These methods are of value in the physico-chemical characterization of digoxin, particularly as the properties may be altered by comminution.
Rat liver microsomes prepared by a calcium aggregation method have been found capable of readily undergoing NADPH induced lipid peroxidation. Malonic dialdehyde production of calcium bound microsomes is equivalent to that attained by microsomes prepared by ultracentrifugation. In addition these calcium bound microsomes can be quickly removed from suspension by means of ultrafiltration.
Pyranine is shown to be a convenient and sensitive probe for reporting pH values, pHi, at the interior of anionic and at the outer surface of cationic liposomes. It is well shielded from the phospholipid headgroups by water molecules in the interior of anionic liposomes, but it is bound to the surface of cationic liposomes. Hydrogen ion concentrations outside the liposomes, 'bulk pH values', pHo, were measured by a combination electrode. While pHi = pHo for neutral, pHi less than pHo for anionic and pHi greater than pHo for cationic liposomes prepared in 5.0 . 10(-3) M phosphate buffers. pKa values for the ionization of pyranine were 7.22 +/- 0.04 and 6.00 +/- 0.05 in water and at the external surface of cationic liposomes. The surface potential for cationic liposomes containing dipalmitoyl-DL-alpha-phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol and octadecylamine in the molar ratio of 1.00 : 0.634 : 1.01, were calcuated to be +72.2 mV. Proton permeabilities were measured for single and multicompartment anionic liposomes. Transfer of anionic liposomes prepared at a given pH to a solution of different pH resulted in a pH gradient if sodium phosphate or borate were used as buffers. In the presence of sodium acetate proton equilibration is promptly established.
We have localized 71% of the guanylate cyclase activity in the (G X 105,000) supernatent fraction of broken KB cells. The reaction follows Michaelis-Menten kinetics, the apparent Km for GTP is 0,5 mM, as long as GTP is lower than a limited concentration, then activity is inhibited. The ion Mn++ is an absolutely required activator, it does not change enzyme-substrate affinity. The enzyme shows several types of binding sites of Mn++. Guanylate cyclase, studied over a period of development of culture, shows, in KB cells without cell contact, an activity higher than that observed in confluent cells. This is not due to the fact of a change in enzyme-substrate affinity but to a modification of Mn++ influence.
Various amino acids had different effect on the synthesis of exocellular proteases by Actinomyces thermovulgaris T-54. Glutamine and arginine induced the synthesis, the effect depending on their concentration in the medium. Other amino acids inhibited the synthesis of proteases. The synthesis of alkaline and neutral proteases was not coordinated, and the ratio between these enzymes was not constant in different variants of the experiment. The maximum synthesis of alkaline proteases was found before the formation of submerged spores.
1. The effects of decreasing pH from 7.40 to 6.20 on the tension developed by direct activation of the myofilaments and by Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum were studied comparatively in segments of single cells of skeletal muscle (frog semitendinosus) and cardiac muscle (rat ventricle) from which the sarcolemma had been removed by micro-dissection (skinned muscle cells). 2. The concentration of free Ca2+ in the solutions was buffered with ethylene glycol-bis (beta-aminoethylether N,N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA). The change of the buffer capacity of a given [total EGTA] caused by varying pH and the uncertainty about the value of the equilibrium constant for Ca-EGTA have been taken into account in the interpretation of the results. 3. Decreasing pH from 7.40 to 6.20 produced an increase in the [free Ca2+] required for the myofilaments to develop 50% of the maximum tension by a factor of about 5 in skinned cardiac cells but of only 3 in skeletal muscle fibres. In addition, acidosis depressed the maximum tension developed in the presence of a saturating [free Ca2+] by approximately the same amount in the two tissues. 4. The pH optimum for loading the sarcoplasmic reticulum of skinned fibres from skeletal muscle decreased when the pCa (-log [free Ca2+]) in the loading solution decreased. The optimum was pH 7.40-7.00 for a loading at pCa 7.75, pH 7.00-6.60 at pCa 7.00 and pH 6.60-6.20 at pCa 6.00. 5. The pH optimum for loading the sarcoplasmic reticulum of skinned cardiac cells with a solution at pCa 7.75 was about pH 7.40 as in skeletal muscle fibres. But the cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum could not be loaded with a [free Ca2+] much higher than pCa 7.75 because a higher [free Ca2+] triggered a Ca2+-induced release of Ca2+ from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. 6. The pH optimum of about 7.40 for the loading of the cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum was also optimum for the Ca2+-induced release of Ca2+ from it. 7. It was concluded that the effects of acidosis on the cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum accentuate the depressive action of decreasing pH on the myofilaments. This may explain the pronounced depression of contractility observed during acidosis in cardiac muscle. In contrast, a moderate acidosis causes an effect on skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum that could compensate for the depressive action on the myofilaments, which is, in addition, less pronounced than in cardiac muscle.
Angiotensin II is known to undergo a reversible conformational transition and a change in potency in rat uterus in vitro with pK approximately 6.5. We have shown by carbon-13 NMR that the conformational transition involves all-trans to partly cis isomerization of the His6-Pro7 peptide bond. Isomerization from all-trans at pH 6.8 to approximately 16% cis at pH 8.0 is therefore correlated with a 10-fold increase in biological activity for [Asp1,Ile5]-angiotensin II in rat uterus in vitro. Isomerization from all-trans at pH 6.8 to approximately 16% cis at pH 8.0 in the competitive inhibitor [Phe4,Tyr8]angiotensin II is correlated with exhibition of virtually no agonist activity at low pH to full agonist activity at high pH. An angiotensin II conformation with Pro7 in the cis form may therefore be the conformation with maximal binding or biological activity at the cellular receptor.
Acid lipase was identified in the rat small intestine by using esters of 4-methylumbelliferone as substrates. Maximum activity towards the oleate ester was found at pH 4.0. In adult animals, the activity of acid lipase exhibited both latency and sedimentability, indicating a lyosomal localization. The activity of acid lipase was practically the same along the height of the villus, thus paralleling the distribution of acid beta-galactosidase. In adult rats, the activity of acid lipase in proximal (jejunum) and middle (mid-jejunum) sections of the small intestine was practically the same and exceeded the activity in the distal (ileum) section by a factor of 2. In suckling rats, the activity of the enzyme in the mid-jejunum exceeded that in the jejunum and ileum by 2.5- and 1.5-fold respectively. During postnatal development, the acid lipase activity of the mid-jejunum showed a peak between days 10 and 15, at which time it exceeded the adult mid-jejunum activity by 5--6-fold.
The oxygen affinity of opossum blood changes in the postnatal period. The youngest opossums studied were 53 days of age (dated from the day of transit from vagina to pouch) and still confined to the maternal pouch: they had a blood P50 of 32.6 +/- 2.9 mm Hg. The blood P50 value then increased significantly, in two steps. First, while the young were still in the pouch, blood P50 rose secondary to a rise in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG). Blood P50 and DPG concentration then remained stable until the animals left the maternal pouch, when DPG rose again, causing a further increment in the blood P50 which peaked at 48.7 +/- 4.5 mm Hg in animals 148 days old. Blood P50 subsequently decreased significantly, reaching the adult value (42.0 +/- 1.9 mm Hg) at about 250 days.
Three antigens shared by bile and tissues (BT-1, BT-2 and BT-3) and one shared by bile and saliva (BA) were identified in human gallbladder bile by immunodiffusion. The former were detected in all bile specimens examined, whereas the latter was detected only in half. BT-1 was limited in distribution to kidney, urine and bile; whereas BT-2 and BT-3 were widely distributed mainly in liver, lung and bile. The antigens were not present in biles of other mammals tested, with the exception of BA which was also present in Rhesus monkey. All antigens were inactivated by Pronase, had relative electrophoretic mobilities of serum globulins and separated from each other in Sephadex G-200 gel filtration and ammonium sulphate fractionation. Ethanol inactivated BT-1 and precipitated the other antigens. BT-2 and BA were relatively resistant to boiling temperature and acid pH, whereas BT-1 and BT-3 were susceptible. Antigens BT-2 and BT-3 were detected in serum of patients with acute hepatitis but not of patients with other diseases or of normal controls.
It has been recommended to use SI units in clinical chemistry. A consequence of this is that pH is reported as the excess chemical potential (or standard chemical potential) of hydrogen ions with the unit kJ/mol. On the basis of the excess chemical potential of H+ it is possible to calculate the hydrogen ion concentration in the system = the equilibrium concentration of H+ = the concentration of free H+. This quantity must be clearly distinguished from the stoichiometric concentration of H+ = the excess concentration of total H+, which indicates the amount of added or removed H+. The latter quantity with opposite sign has been called the excess concentration of base, but the designation "stoichiometric concentration of H+" seems to be more logical. The general principles for description of a component in a chemical system are based on (1) an extensive quantity (the stoichiometric amount of substance), and (2) an intensive quantity (the excess chemical potential); the product of these has the dimension of energy.
Binding of [3-H]-dihydroalprenolol ([3-H]-DHA) to rat cardiac membranes was rapid and reversible (k1 = 0.633-0.701 x 10(6) M(-1) S(-1) And k(-1) = 0.0017-0.0043 s(-1). 2 [3-H]-DHA bound to a single class of binding sites with an equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd25degreesc) of 5.7+/-1.1 x 10(-9) M. 3 This binding was specific and the order of potency of adrenoceptor agonists in competing for the binding sites was (-)-isoproterenol greater than (+/-)-isoproternol greater than (+)-isoproterenol greater than (-)-adrenaline greater than (-)-noradrenaline. This was in agreement with the beta1 nature of the cardiac beta-receptors. 4 Cardioselective beta-blockers (i.e. metoprolol, acebutolol and practolol) were shown to have lower binding site affinities, when compared to other blockers. This may be related to steric hindrance by the side-chain at the aromatic end of these molecules.
Biological activity of 2 derivatives of sibiromycin, an antibiotic close by its chemical structure to antramycin and their capacity for formation of complexes with DNA was studied. Anhydrosibiromycin like sibiromycin formed a complex with DNA. The antibiotic increased the DNA melting point but to a less extent than sibiromycin. Anhydrosibiromycin had a low activity in the system of DNA-dependent RNA-polymerase. The low biological activity of anhydrosibiromycin must be due to instability of the antibiotic complex with DNA. Methyl ether of sibiromycin by the phenol hydroxyl, the other derivative of sibiromycin had no biological activity and did not interact with DNA. On the basis of experimental data it was suggested that definite functional groups of the sibiromycin participated in DNA binding.
In order to check the hypothesis of an identity of dopamine (DA) and prolactin inhibiting activity (PIF), their subcellular distribution was studied in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) and the striatum, which served as a control structure. PIF was tested both in vivo and on pituitary incubates. Fractions were also assayed after adsorption of their catecholamine content on alumina, as well as in presence of haloperidol or alpha-flupentixol, potent DA receptor inhibitors. In the MBH, PIF was evenly distributed in the 17,000 g supernatant (S2) and in the crude mitochondrial fraction (P2) which contains synaptosomes. PIF activity was completely removed by alumina adsorption of S2, but not of P2 in spite of an over 99.9% elimination of DA. In contrast, striatal PIF activity was detected only in P2, and disappeared completely upon alumina adsorption, thus indicating that, in this structure, it is entirely due to DA. Addition of haloperidol (10--5M) or alpha-flupentixol (10--6M) reduced PIF activity of crude MBH homogenates, but no longer affected it after alumina adsorption. Quantitative studies suggest that only half of the total MBH PIF activity is accounted for by DA. It is concluded that the MBH contains dopamine-free PIF, which, as already shown for several other neurohormones, is exclusively distributed in nerve-endings.
Twenty-nine derivatives of phenothiazine formed relatively stable ions by proton capture under conditions of chemical ionization, using methane or isobutane as reagent gas. Fragments of generally low abundance formed by simple bond cleavage in the trimethylene portion of the side chain and by loss of water or hydrogen halide. Mass spectra obtained from pyrolyzates of amine salts and from the corresponding free bases were essentially identical.
The capacity of Candida albicans to produce germ tubes in a simple medium is analysed as a function of the pH variation, the bacterial supernatant and the addition of differing concentrations of various species of bacteria.
In rat cerebellum the major portion of guanylate cyclase was found to be particulate-bound. The properties of particulate and supernatant guanylate cyclases from the cerebellum were comparatively examined. Both enzymes required the same optimal concentration of Mn2+ and were stimulated by Ca2+ in the presence of a low concentration of Mn2+. But dispersion of the particulate enzyme with Triton X-100 altered the Mn2+ concentration producing maximum activity and the inhibitory effect of Ca2+. The subcellular distributions of guanylate and adenylate cyclases were also studied in rat cerebellum. The major portions of the two cyclases were found in the mitochondrial fraction. The submitochondrial fractions separated by sucrose gradient showed that the major activities of both cyclases were concentrated in the fraction containing mainly nerve ending particles.
A brief review of some of the relationships between the secretory rate and the electrophysiological characteristics of the canine and frog gastric mucosa is presented. There is no simple relationship between the potential difference (PD) and H+ rate in the in vitro frog gastric mucosa with standard Cl- bathing solutions. In contrast, with Cl- -free solutions (PD is inverted) there is a precise linear relationship between the PD and the H+ rate. This linear relationship is strong support for the concept that the H+ mechanism under these conditions is electrogenic. In the past it has been difficult rigorously to exclude the possibility that the inverted PD is due to a liquid junction potential between acid fluid in the lumina and the secretory bathing solution. Use of aminopyrine or imidazole essentially eliminates the possibility that the inverted PD is due to a liquid junction potential. Hence the linear relationship is solid evidence for the electrogenicity of the H+ mechanism. Recently we have shown that aminopyrine or imidazole can reverse thiocyanate inhibition of H+ secretion.
Under the effect of trauma, in 4 patients the development of metaplastic bone-tissue in the soft-parts of mesenchymal origin has been observed by the author. In 3 patients the development of supernumerary articulations proved the appearance of cartilaginous tissue; in consequence, the presence of cartilaginous tissue may play an important role in the metaplastic soft-parts ossification.
All 47 non-nisin producing strains of Streptococcus lactis and 12/13 strains of Str. lactis subsp. diacetylactis examined produced bacteriocins, for which the term lactostrepcins is suggested. Seven strains of Str. cremoris examined produced no bacteriocins active against 3 lactic streptococci strains used as indicators. The strains examined were divided into 3 groups: I, those producing lactostrepcins active against only one streptomycin resistant mutant of Str. lactis 60 indicator strain; II, those producing lactostrepcins active against all 3 indicator strains; III, those not producing lactostrepcins active against the indicator strains employed. The lactostrepcins were sensitive to various proteolytic enzymes and to phospholipase D, but retained full or partial activity after dialysis. Most of the bacteriocins studied were fully active only within the pH range 4.2--5.0 and were reversibly inactivated at pH 7.0 or 8.0. Results suggested occurrence of 4 different lactostrepcins. The lactostrepcins produced by all group I strains were the same, but there were differences among the lactostrepcins produced by group II strains. Lactostrepcins killed some beta-haemolytic streptococci and some strains of Lactobacillus helveticus. One of the lactostrepcins was also active against certain Leuconostoc strains, but not against other Leuconostoc strains, nor against L. helveticus or other Gram-positive bacteria.
Quantitative electron microscopy shows that Freon-extracted poliovirus, velocity banded in a sucrose gradient, contains over 95% single particles. This well-dispersed virus reacts quite rapidly with bromine in turbulent flowing water, losing plaque titer at the rate of one log10 unit in 10s at pH 7, 2 C, and at a bromine concentration of 2.2 muM. At 10 and 20 C the rate of disinfection (log10 plaque-forming units per second) is faster, and at both temperatures it increases in approximately linear fashion with increasing bromine concentration. At 2 C such a linear relationship is not observed.
In the light of recent knowledge on a complex of diseases caused by a new group of viruses, arenaviruses, virological studies largely directed toward small field mammals were undertaken during 1973-1974 aiming at etiological clarification of Korean hemorrhagic nephrosonephritis (KHNN). Specimens were collected in an endemic area of KHNN located north to northeast of Seoul. Virus isolation tests with 299 urine specimens and 131 mite pools recovered from small mammals and 14 acute stage sera from typical cases yielded negative results. Complement-fixation (CF) tests failed to detect antibodies against the antigens of Congo, lymphocytic choriomeningitis (LCM), Tacaribe, and Pichinde viruses among 366 small mammal sera. In addition, CF tests of 59 of the above sera against Apoi and Lassa virus antigens were negative. The results do not support the likelihood of an arenavirus being transmitted among Korean small field mammals, the overwhelming majority of which were Apodemus agrarius. A hypothesis that KHNN is caused by a virus of small field mammal origin was not proved within the technical limit of relatively unsophisticated methods employed herein.
The clinical syndrome of polymyalgia rheumatica is reviewed. The relationship of this disease with temporal arteritis is discussed, and I consider both syndromes have a pathological basis of generalised giant cell arteritis.Seven cases of polymyalgia and four cases of temporal arteritis were recorded during the six-year period (1969-1975) in one general practice.The outlines of management are discussed, with a plea for earlier recognition of the syndromes of polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis in general practice.
Sheep pepsin was isolated (approx. 120-fold purification) from aqueous abomasal homogenates by (1) pH fractionation, (2) chromatography on Sepharose 4B-poly-L-lysine columns and (3) gel filtration on Sephadex G-100. The enzyme had mol.wt. approx. 34000, N-terminal valine and C-terminal alanine. The amino acid composition of sheep pepsin was generally similar to that of pig and ox pepsins, with a very low content of basic residues and a high content of acidic and hydroxy-amino acids. The pH optimum for NN-dimethyl-casein and NN-dimethyl-haemoglobin as substrates was approx. 1.8. The Km and kcat. for NN-dimethyl-haemoglobin were 46micronM and 1100min-1 respectively, and for NN-dimethyl-casein the corresponding parameters were 50micronM and 420min-1. These values were generally similar to those for pig and ox pepsins. At the pH optimum of 4.6, the sheep pepsin was about 50% as active on benzyloxycarbonyl-L-histidyl-L-phenyl-alanyl-L-tryptophan ethyl ester as was pig pepsin. The pH optimum for the hydrolysis of N-acetyl-L-phenylalanyl-L-di-iodotyrosine by sheep, ox and pig pepsins was approx. 1.85.
Aggregation of thrombocytes, caused by ADP, affected the rate of anaerobic breakdown of carbohydrates due to inhibition of the glucose degradation, while the rate of lactate formation was not distinctly altered. Content of NAD was decreased simultaneously with an increase in content of NADP; the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was distinctly increased but the unaltered activity of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase was observed; content of reduced glutathione was increased 15-fold. The activity of NADP-dependent glutathione reductase was increased under effect of ADP; at the same time, the activity of NAD-dependent glutathione reductase did not depend on the diphosphate effect.
The present paper is based on the analysis of congress reports and gerontological journals and points up new trends in gerontological research. Quantitatively, there was an increase in the number of psycho-gerontological publications. However, relatively seen, they represent an almost unchanged percentage of the contributions to gerontological literature on the whole. Predominant themes in USA and West Germany are discussed. There is, on the one hand, an increasing differentiation and specialization of methodical contribution and, on the other hand, an increasing number of contributions which neglect the methodical aspect. A trend toward practically oriented research is shown, as can be seen in intervention gerontology. Aging is seen as a phanomena with biological, social, and ecological determinants. In conclusion the universality and generality of aging is questioned, the concept of a differential gerontology is proposed and so a greater consideration of the individuality of the aging process is found to be necessary.
In 85 patients between 15 and 95 years of age (40 male patients and 45 females) without any signs of renal disease (concentration of serum creatinine below 1,4 mg/100ml, normal diastolic blood pressure and normal urine analysis) a highly significant negative correlation was found between glomerular filtration rate (GFR, determined by 51Cr-EDTA - slope-clearance) and renal plasma flow (RPF, determined by 131J-oJHS-iodinehippuricacid-totalclearance) on one side and age on the other. Beginning with a basic value of 160 ml in males and 144 ml in females for GFR, the average decrease per year was 1,2 ml/1,0 ml respectively. The basis value of RPF was 854 ml for males and 673 ml for females, the decrease per year was 5,4 ml in men and 2,9 ml in women. The importance of physiological diminution of clearance values in elderly patients and its consequences for therapy are discussed. The more exact and methodically simpler 51Cr-EDTA-slope-clearance without urine collection should be used instead of the somewhat inaccurate determination of endogenous creatinine clearance especially in older patients.
The amount of cyanide released on acidifying whole blood was much greater than the total from the plasma and red cells assayed separately, and varied directly with plasma thiocyanate concentrations. This artifactual formation of cyanide by whole blood was reduced by exposure to carbon monoxide. Incubation of haemolysates of washed red blood cells showed that optimum cyanide production from thiocyanate occurred at pH 4.5 with none at pH 7.4; spectrophotometric study confirmed the involvement of haemoglobin. It is doubtful whether this activity of haemoglobin is of normal physiological importance and it is probable that the evidence for the enzyme, 'thiocyanate oxidase' was based on this artifact of assay. Plasma cyanide is probably the metabolically relevant measurement, since the red blood cells act as a 'cyanide sink'. Where values for whole blood cyanide are required we recommend separate assay of plasma and saline washed red blood cells.
1. Thermostable membrane vesicles which were capable of active transport of alanine dependent on either respiration or an artificial membrane potential were isolated from the thermophilic aerobic bacterium PS3. 2. Uptake of alanine was dependent on the oxidation of ascorbate-phenazine methosulfate or on generated or exogenous NADH, but succinate and malate failed to drive the uptake. The optimum temperature for respiration-driven uptake of alanine was 45 to 60 degrees. 3. Potassium ion-loaded vesicles were prepared by incubating vesicles at 55 degrees in 0.5 M potassium phosphate. The addition of valinomycin elicited rapid and transient uptake of alanine under the test conditions. Uptake of alanine in response to valinomycin was progressively enhanced by the addition of dicylohexylcarbodiimide, but was completely abolished in the presence of a proton conductor or synthetic permeable cation. The effect of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide was dependent on its concentration and was maximal at a concentration of 0.4 mM. 4. The proton permeability of membrane vesicles was reduced by the addition of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. A small but significant difference was found in the initial rates of proton uptake in the presence of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide with and without alanine. The results suggest that protons alanine are transported simultaneously in a stoichiometric ratio of 1 : 1. 5. The uptake of alanine was also driven by a pH gradient induced by an instantaneous pH drop in a suspension of alkali-loaded vesicles. Thus, alanine accumulation was driven not only by an electrical potential but also by a pH gradient. 6. Addition of ATP resulted in the inhibition of alanine uptake dependent on artificial membrane potential. ATP hydrolysis by membrane ATPase created a membrane potential which was inside-positive, and this might decrease the effective membrane potential (generated by K+ efflux mediated by valinomycin) available to drive alanine uptake.
The effectiveness of several commonly used inhibitors of ribonuclease (RNAase) has been studied using the removal of radio-labelled leucine from leucyl-tRNA as a sensitive assay for RNAase activity. The inhibitors were tested under a variety of conditions, varying the temperature, the pH, and the source of RNAase. When each inhibitor is udes separately in the presence of pancreatic RNAase, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) is the most effective; but during long exposures to temperatures above 0 degrees C considerable amounts of RNA  are still degraded. Combination of inhibitors are more effective in preserving RNA; with this assay, a combination of SDS with diethyl pyrocarbonate is the most effective. Proteinase K acts as an inhibitor when used in combination with SDS; however, it has RNAase activity when used by itself. Diethyl pyrocarbonate, when used at the high range of concentrations employed by others for RNAase inhibition, reacts with RNA changing its charge. However, when diethyl pyrocarbonate is used in smaller amounts the effects on RNA are minimal, and when used in combination with SDS it effectively inhibits RNAase.
Twenty-two anorgasmic women received 20 sessions of a multiple-technique behavioural therapy. The design included blind ratings by two independent assessors, multiple assessment instruments, and a waiting list control group. Treatment was significantly better than no treatment in terms of: (1) the percentage of patients experiencing orgasm during at least 50 per cent of sexual relations; (2) the percentage of women reporting satisfactory sexual relations at least 50 per cent of the time; (3) patients' ratings of positive reactions to various sexual behaviours; and (4) assessors' global clinical ratings. Significant improvement was also noted on the MMPI, IPAT, and Symptom Check List. Improvement was maintained at a follow-up average 9 months later. These results support the impression that a behavioural approach offers much promise in treating female orgasmic dysfunction.
Twenty out-patients suffering from anxiety and tension after withdrawal from alcohol were treated for 28 days with alprazolam. Three patients dropped out for intercurrent events, and 2 dropped out for recurrent drinking. Of the 15 patients completing the study, analysis of variance showed significant improvement in all Physician's Ratings as well as all patient self-ratings. At the 28th day, 93% of the patients rated moderate to marked improvement on the Physician's Global Impression and Therapeutic Effect, and 93% self rated at least a little better. Side-effects were generally mild and inconsequential. No adverse effects attributable to alprazolam were noted on laboratory evaluations, EKG's or ophthalmologic examinations.
On the basis of 47 cases of gas gangrene collected over the three year period between 1974 and 1976, the authors review the circumstances surrounding its development, the clinical features and the prognosis of the disorder which remains grave despite a well-defined therapeutic protocol combining surgery, antibiotics and hyperbaric oxygen. There would appear to be a real resurgence of the disease at the present time. Post-traumatic and surgical aetiologies predominate, giving rise to two types of gangrene: clostridial gas gangrene secondary to contamined wounds, with a quasi-constant vascular element, affecting predominantly the limbs, and nonclostridrial gangrene, the increasing prevalence of which involves essentially spetic abdomino-pelvic surgery. In the light of this study, prognosis would appear to be related to the underlying terrain in which the gangrene occurs, to certain features of the clinical picture and, above all, to the possibilities of early application of the complete therapeutic protocol. Strict prophylactic measures would alone seem capable of preventign the worrying increase in the number of cases of gas gangrene.
The residual hexosaminidase isoenzymes in juvenile Sandhoff and infantile Sandhoff disease fibroblasts, have been determined by starch gel electrophoresis and column isoelectric focusing. Hex A and hex S are the major residual isozymes in fibroblasts from the juvenile patient, while hex B is barely detectable. Only hex S could be detected in fibroblasts from infantile Sandhoff patients. These results suggest that the defects in juvenile and infantile Sandhoff disease may be different allelic modifications of the beta subunit common to hex A and hex B.
The metabolism of 5-isopropyl-1-methyl-2-nitro-1H-[2-14C] imidazole in dogs has been investigated after oral administration of 50 mg/kg. Three main metabolites, still containing the nitro group and accounting for about 50% of the total radiocarbon, together with a small amount of the unchanged drug, were isolated from the urine within 48 hr. The structures were determined by mass, infrared, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The biotransformations giving rise to the metabolites isolated involve the isopropyl chain of the molecule, either at the tertiary carbon atom or at one of the two methyl groups, or both. Thus, the metabolic behavior of this 2-nitroimidazole derivative appears to be similar to that previously demonstrated for the class of the isomeric 5-nitroimidazoles.
The production of sorbose by Acetobacter suboxydans (4) is closely related to the concentration of sorbit in the medium. An increasing concentration of sorbit gives rise to the inhibition of cell reproduction; followed by a decrease of sorbose content in the culture medium. The decrease of sorbose yield in concentrations of about 15% sorbit in medium indicates the decreasing metabolism rate of the total population of Acetobacter suboxydans (4) culture and does not refer to the ability of the individual bacterium cell to produce sorbose. Relevant research work showed, that sorbose production for each bacterium cell distinctly increased with the decrease of the number of cells in a population of Acetobacter suboxydans (4) as a consequence of the application of an increased sorbit concentration. An unrestrained reproduction of bacteria could be obtained by exluding all factors involved in the contamination of sorbit and exhibiting toxic effects. Therefore the organisms could be offered a greater concentration of sorbit for conversion into sorbose. Thus sorbose yield would be increased, respectively. The total conversion of the C-source into sorbose could not be obtained with Acetobacter ruboxydans (4).
The renal and respiratory systems regulate acid base homeostasis by modifying the bicarbonate buffer pair HCO3- and CO2; other buffer systems adjust to alterations in this pair. The pH change following addition of metabolic acid, or base, is modified initially by the body's buffers. Subsequent respiratory compensation, by retention or excretion of CO2, modifies further this change before renal corrective responses finally occur. A primary respiratory acid base change is modified initially by cellular buffers, with renal compensatory mechanisms adjusting slowly to this change. However correction of the respiratory pH disorder only occurs with correction of the primary disease process. The body's capacity, therefore, to adjust to a matabolic acid base defect, appears greater than that observed with a primary respiratory pH abnormality. Treatment in all acid base disorders focuses initially upon the primary diseases process; thereafter therapeutic manipulation of the HCO3-, CO2 buffer pair, to aid the body's compensatory processes, can be considered.
Individual enzyme-inhibitor complexes with characteristic absorption spectra have been obtained as a result of the reaction of the apoenzyme of aspartate aminotransferase with Nalpha-(5'-phosphopyridoxyl)-L-glutamic acid, Nalpha-(5'-phosphopyridoxyl)-D-glutamic acid, and Nalpha-(5'-phosphopyridoxyl)-L-pyroglutamic acid. The stability of the enzyme-inhibitor complexes has been investigated under various conditions, viz., reactivation by the coenzyme, denaturation by urea, variations in the pH. It has been shown that the complexes formed by the last two inhibitors are reactivated by pyridoxal-5'-phosphate and that the inhibitor can be released under mild conditions. The enzyme-inhibitor complex formed by Nalpha-(5'-phosphopyridoxyl)-L-glutamic acid, on the other hand, was not reactivated by the coenzyme. Pyridoxylglutamic acid has been isolate in attempts to release the inhibitor. The dephosphorylation of the inhibitor has been associated both with the hydrolysis of a phosphate bond involving the enzyme and with the phosphorylation of aspartate aminotransferase. A 32P peptide containing 13 amino acids has been isolated from the tryptic hydrolysate of the enzyme-inhibitor complex (formed by a 32P inhibitor). The data obtained have been interpreted on the basis of an assumption that the phosphate group of the coenzyme has an active role in the enzymatic transamination reaction.
Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra were obtained for various isocitrate dehydrogenase-Mn(II) complexes. The qualitative effects of the binding of substrates, nucleotides, and substrate analogues on the isotropic character of the electronic environment of enzyme-bound Mn(II) were subsequently investigated. The addition of isocitrate produces a markedly anisotropic spectrum whereas alpha-ketoglutarate does not alter the spectrum of enzyme-Mn(II) substantially. This suggests direct coordination of isocitrate to the Mn(II) but perphaps a different mode of binding for alpha-ketoglutarate. Other studies demonstrated mutually exclusive binding relationships between TPN and TPNH, between Mn-isocitrate and TPNH, and between HCO3-(CO2) and formate or thiocyanate. Indirect evidence supporting CO2 rather than HCO3-as the actual reactive species which binds to the enzyme in the reductive carboxylation reaction is presented on the basis of the results of the formate and thiocyanate studies. From the EPR results recorded for ternary, quaternary, and quinary enzyme-substrate complexes, correlations between the appearance of fine structure signals and the binding of individual substrates and/or nucleotides are found, and tentative assignments of such signals are made on this basis. Additional studies were conducted to determine binding constants for Mg(II) Co(II), and Co-isocitrate, and a comparison was made with kinetically determined binding constants.
In vitro studies on H+ secretion, potential difference (PD), short-circuit current (Isc), and resistance across stripped mucosa of frog stomach in Cl-medium have shown that addition of nicotine in the serum bathing fluid caused a marked inhibition of the H+ secretory rate and an increase of PD and Isc without change of the transmucosal resistance. A dose-response correlation was indicated. During the first 8 min, the changes in the measured parameters, namely, PD versus Ih and Isc versus Ih, were linear. After 8 min, a deviation from linearity was observed. From the slope of the regression lines, the resistance of the electrogenic Cl- pump on the mucosal membrane (Rcl) was calculated to be 127 omega cm2 and the resistance of the chloride pathway on the serosal side (Rcl) was 407 omega cm2. The resistance of the H+ pump on the mucosal membrane (Rh) in Cl- medium was estimated to be  385 omega cm2. The sum of the emf's of the Cl+ pump on the mucosal membrane and of the Cl- gradient across the serosal membrane, namely Ecl + Ecl, was found to be 35 mV. The presence of such linear relationships between measured versus the H+ rate and Isc versus Ih lends support to the electrogenic theory of HCl secretion.
1 The competitive alpha-adrenoceptor blocking agent, piperoxan, in concentrations up to 2 x 10(-4) M, produced large dose-dependent increases in transmitter overflow from the isolated blood perfused spleen of the cat following nerve stimulation at 10 hertz. 2 At concentrations greater than 2 x 10(-4) M, piperoxan produced a rise in perfusion pressure, a contraction of the splenic capsule, and a marked dose-dependent decrease in transmitter overflow. 3 Phenoxybenzamine (10(-4) M) and desmethylimipramine (3 x 10(-5) M) produced further increases in transmitter overflow when added after piperoxan. 4 Piperoxan (5.8 to 6.6 x 10(-6) M) had no effect on the recovery of 3H in the venous blood following the close arterial infusion or injection of (3H)-(--)-noradrenaline, indicating that the drug does not inhibit uptake of the amine. 5 Piperoxan produced dose-dependent inhibition of responses of the splenic vasculature to close arterial injection of 1 microgram of (--)-noradrenaline but was much less effective at inhibiting responses to nerve stimulation. At 2 x 10(-6) M piperoxan produced a considerable reduction of the response to injected noradrenaline but potentiated the response to nerve stimulation. 6 In isolated strips of cat splenic capsule, piperoxan produced a shift to the right of the dose-response curve to noradrenaline with no change of the maximum response. There was no evidence of a postsynaptic sensitizing effect of the type observed in the rat vas deferens.
The dependence of the disintegration times of placebo and active tablets containing hydroxypropylcellulose (HPC), as binder on the temperature of the test medium in the region of 37 degrees is reported. The degree of temperature dependence varied with the HPC lot and concentration in the formulation of certain drugs, such as caffeine. The extent of the temperature dependence could be diminished by reducing the HPC concentration in the formulations. Corresponding trends were observed in drug release behaviour from some of these formulations. The effects observed were interpreted in terms of the thermodynamic behaviour of HPC systems and a specific drug-HPC interaction.
The effects of phenylephrine on the shape of the contraction curve and on the cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (c-AMP) content were studied in electrically driven (frequency 0.2 Hz) cat papillary muscles. All experiments were done in the presence of 1 micron propranolol in order to minimize interference from beta-adrenoceptors. 1. Phenylephrine increased the force of contraction in a concentration-dependent manner. Maximal effects (about 200% of control) occurred at 30 micron phenylephrine. 2. The positive inotropic effect (PIE) of phenylephrine was antagonized by phentolamine. Phentolamine, 5 micron, produced a parallel shift of the concentration-response curve for the PIE of phenylephrine by about two log units to the right. 3. The PIE of 30 micron phenylephrine occurred without any detectable increase in the c-AMP levels of the preparations. 4. The PIE of 30 micron phenylephrine developed about three times more slowly than the PIE of an equieffective concentration of isoprenaline. 5. The PIE of phenylephrine was accompanied by significant, concentration-dependent increases in both time to peak force and relaxation time. 6. It is concluded that the PIE of phenylephrine in the presence of propranolol is mediated mainly by a stimulation of alpha-adrenoceptors. It is unlikely to be related to an increase in c-AMP. With respect to time course and influence on the shape of the contraction curve it is qualitatively different from the effects of beta-adrenoceptor stimulation. These data are taken to support the hypothesis that the mechanical effects of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor stimulating agents on the heart are produced by different mechanisms.
The ventricle function can be established by the vectorial description of left-ventricular pressure parameters or flow sizes, respectively. The vector diagrammes result from the momentaneous pressure within the ventricle on the X-axis and the differentiated pressure curve or the aortic flow, respectively, on the Y-axis. Well surveyable from the vector loop received (LVP/dp/dt) are established dp/dtmax, dp/dtmin, LVPmax, LVEDP as well as the tg of the pressure increase speed or the pressure decrease speed, respectively, pro developed pressure. By way of example medicamentous changes of the vector diagrammes were induced and the parameters mentioned established. The vectorial demonstration of the left-ventricular haemodynamics seems to give additional informations concerning the phase of centraction and relaxation
Soluble starch was hydrolysed to maltose by Aspergillus wentii Wehmer (IMI 17295). Studies on nutritional requirements of Aspergillus wentii for production of amylase revealed that the optimum conditions were achieved in fermentation culture medium containing 1% starch, and incubated at 20 degrees C for 3 days at pH 6.0. Tryptophan was the best nitrogen source. The amylase activity was completely inhibited when 1 mM sodium iodoacetate was incorporated into the medium. With 10 mM sodium citrate the amylase activity was increased from 3.51 to 6.0 mg/ml.
Krebs II ascites cells incubated in Earle's saline (lacking glucose and amino acids) contain ribosomes with proteins S6 and Lgamma phosphorylated, as do ascites cells grown in the peritonea of mice or hamster fibroblasts grown in Eagle's medium. When ascites cells were incubated in Eagle's medium (containing glucose and amino acids) there was extensive glycolysis, producing very acidic conditions, and ribosomal proteins S3 and L14 became phosphorylated whereas Lgamma became dephosphorylated. This altered pattern of phosphorylation could not be produced merely by incubating ascites cells in Earle's saline at a decreased pH, but a rather similar pattern was produced when Earle's saline was supplemented with amino acids (but with glucose still omitted). These results suggest that depriving ascites cells of glucose may induce the synthesis of a protein (or proteins), necessary for alteration of the pattern of phosphorylation of the ribosomal proteins.
A comparitive study was made of the effect produced by endogenous blastomogenic agents (3-oxyanthranylic and paraoxphenyl-lactic acids) and their nonblastomogenic anaogues (anthranylic and phenyl-lactic acids) on the activity of tyrosine-aminotranspherase in the rat liver. Blastomogenic metabolites proved to be capable of inducing sharply the enzyme activity. This phenomenon and data on the role played by the increase in the activity of tyrosine-aminotranspherase and tryptophane-oxygenase in tyrosine and tryptophane catabolism on the way of a possible formation of blastomogenic metabolites permitted to put forward a suggestion on the "chain reaction" of accumulation of the endogenous blastomogenic agents in the organism.
Cardiorespiratory reflex responses to laryngeal chemoreceptor stimulation were studied in 62 piglets of both sexes varying in age from 1 to 79 days. The distal trachea was cannulated to provide a free airway and the proximal end used to introduce fluids into the laryngeal area. Introduction of either water or milk produced apnea, bradycardia, and hypertension. Swab application of test fluids to the laryngeal epithelium produced similar responses. The reflex could be interrupted by flushing the laryngeal region with saline, by cutting the superior laryngeal nerves (SLN) or by anesthetizing the laryngeal epithelium with lidocaine. Electrical stimulation of SLN elicited identical responses. Respiratory inhibition by the reflex was enhanced following central depression with chloralose and overridden by administration of the respiratory stimulant, aminophylline. The relative potency of the laryngeal reflex was estimated to be equivalent to about 40% of the dose of chloralose which produced permanent respiratory arrest. It is concluded that in circumstances where respiratory drive is reduced the laryngeal inhibitory reflex is capable of caused persistent apnea and asphyxial death in the young piglet.
High performance liquid chromatography in connection with monochromatic UV-detection has proved to be a powerful tool for separation and quantitative determination of drugs and their metabolites in body fluids. Serum samples from volunteers medicated with the psychotropic drugs fosazepam and nomifensine are analysed by this method. Separation times are less than 5 min; the detection limits are within the range of 30-50 ng/ml serum. The reliability of the method is discussed: The results are compared to those from the same serum samples obtained by measurement of total radioactivity and by quantitative mass spectrometry in order to confirm the accuracy of the method. Examples of the pharmacokinetic profile of the two drugs and their metabolites in serum are presented, based on analysis by the methods described.
The authors report the clinical case of a patients who underwent four anaesthetic inductions during a period of 3 months. Two were associated with severe acute hypertension making the intended operation impossible at that time. Thorough investigations led to a diagnosis of phaeochromocytoma. Reviewing the protocol of the four anaesthetic inductions, the authors discuss the mechanism of provocation of paroxysmal hypertension which was seen on two occasions.
Citrate and malate were poorer sources of exogenous carbon than several hexose, pentose, or disaccharide sugars for supporting macroconidial germination by Fusarium solani at high conidial density (1 X 10(5) condia/ml). Only citrate, however, failed to block chlamydospore morphogenesis to a degree comparable to glucose or other readily used sugars. Mostly immature chlamydospores were formed in the presence of citrate. At low conidial density (5 X 10(3) conidia/ml), exogenous carbon-independent macroconidial germination and subsequent rapid chalmydospore formation on germ tubes was not inhibited by ammonium or nitrate nitrogen. The citrate-phosphate buffered, low pH (4.0) medium of Cochrane induced more immature chlamydospore formation by F. solani than a pH 6.0 medium, but few mature chlamydospores were formed in either medium. Condensation of hyphal cytoplasm into developing chlamydospores, a character typical of chlamydospore formation, did not occur extensively and macroconidia, hyphae, and immature chlamydospores stained deeply with Sudan III, suggesting lipid biosynthesis. This inhibition of chlamydospore maturation may be due partly to nitrogen deficiency imposed by the high C:N ratio of the medium and to the presence of citrate. Only vesiculate hyphal cells were formed by F. solani f. sp. phaseoli in both media. Field soils to which the clone of F. solani used is indigenous had mean pH values ranging from 5.2 to 6.0.
The level of noradrenaline (NA) in the plasma of white mice, determined radioenzymatically as described by Henry et al. changes with age. In 45 days old animals NA in plasma is 10.3 +/- 4.4 ng/ml, whereas in 220 days old animals it was found to be 22.7 +/- 8.8 ng/ml. In 45 days old animals NA in plasma is increased 30 min after caffeine (45 microgram/g) significantly to 109% of control level, whereas in the older animals it is raised insignificantly (14%). The observed NA increase in plasma with increasing age might be a compensatory reaction due to diminished sensibility of the postsynaptic adrenergic receptors to NA. The explanation for the missing raise in NA plasma level after caffeine in adult mice might be the following: Calcium ions are indispensable for the release of NA by nerve impulses and the stimulation of presynaptic beta-receptors of noradrenergic neurons by NA contributes to facilitations of NA release. As in older animals under physiological conditions the release of NA is higher than in young animals it can be assumed that in the older ones the NA release from sympathetic neurons stimulated by caffeine cannot be further enhanced since the calcium receptors are fully occupied by released calcium ions and the presynaptic beta-receptors by released NA molecules.
NADP-linked aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldehyde : NADP+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.1.4) was purified from Proteus vulgaris to the stage of homogeneity as judged by ultracentrifugation and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of the purified enzyme was estimated to be 130000 by gel filtration. The enzyme which was crystallized from ammonium sulfate solution, lost its activity. The enzyme did not require coenzyme A, and the reaction was completely dependent on ammonium ions which could be partially replaced by Rb+ or K+. The optimum pH was about 9. Broad substrate specificity was observed and Km values for propionaldehyde, acetaldehyde and isovaleraldehyde were 1.7 - 10(-5), 4 - 10(-5) and 3 - 10(-5) M, respectively. The physiological role of the enzyme in living cells is obscure, but might account for another degradative pathway of L-leucine in P. vulgaris differing from the established pathway.
The amplitude of the electrophoretically evoked end-plate potential increases with changing the pH of the bathing solution from 9.4 to 5.4 at room temperature. This change is not observed at lower temperature. The underlying current (e.p.c.I) is slightly decreasing at room temperature by lowering the pH. The relationship between the amplitude of the e.p.c.I and membrane potential is highly non-linear at pH 9.4, while it is quite linear at pH 5.4. The time course of the e.p.c.I is changed neither by different pH, nor by different membrane potential. The data suggest that during the e.p.c.I, the mediator (ACh), the receptor (R) and the mediator-receptor complex are in equilibrium: the amplitude of the e.p.c.I will thus depend on the affinity constant of the reversible reaction between ACh and R. It is concluded that by decreasing the pH, the affinity constant is decreased.
Effect of tryptophan force-feeding to well-fed adrenalectomized rats on the ability of liver cell sap and initiation factors to support protein synthesis in vitro was investigated. 5 h after tryptophan force-feeding, the capacity of liver cell sap, pH 5 enzyme and pH 5 supernatant to support protein synthesis was greatly increased. The capacity of cell sap to support charging of tRNA with either (14C)-leucine or (14C)-phenylalanine was increased following a dose of tryptophan. Initiation factors prepared from tryptophan-fed adrenalectomized rats stimulated polyuridylic-acid-directed polyphenylalanine synthesis to a greater extent than those from livers of water-fed adrenalectomized controls.
The kinetics for unfolding and refolding of a parvalbumin (band 5) have been examined as a function of pH near the transition region, using stopped-flow techniques. This protein is rather unusual in that it has no proline residues, and therefore serves as a good example to test the hypothesis that the rate-limiting step seen in denaturation reactions is due to the cis-trans isomerization of proline peptide bonds in the denatured state. The kinetics for parvalbumin unfolding and refolding are complex, with the data being resolvable into two fast phases at 25 degrees. The slower of the two phases seen for the parvalbumin is about 100 to 500 times faster than the slow phase seen for proline-containing proteins under the same conditions! These results argue strongly in support of the proline isomerization hypothesis. It is also suggested that the slower phase seen for parvalbumin and the second-slowest phase seen for proline-containing proteins might be due to the cis-trans isomerization of peptide bonds of non-proline residues.
It is the purpose of this study to standardize platelet aggregation according to the method of Born. It was found that aggregation is influenced by the time of storage, the pH and temperature of plasma. However, there is no significant correlation between platelet number versus aggregation in healthy subjects. To get reproducible results, the plasma samples should be investigated within 2 hours after venipuncture. During storage temperature of all samples should be constant.
The reciprocal relation between liver isoniazid N-acetyltransferase and blood p-aminobenzoic and N-acetyltransferase previously reported is confirmed and found to be expressed in erythrocytes and lymphocytes of genetically rapid and slow isoniazid-acetylator rabbits. Both erythrocytes and lymphocytes from slow acetylator rabbits contained 2.5-3.3 times as much p-aminobenzoic acid N-acetyltransferase activity as the same cells from rapid acetylator rabbits. Mechanisms which might account for the reciprocal association between liver and blood N-acetyltransferases are considered.
A higher activity of glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2) was found in Neurospora crassa when NH4+ was limiting as nitrogen source than when glutamate was limiting. When glutamate, glutamine or NH4+ were in excess, a lower activity was found. Immunological titration and sucrose gradient sedimentation of the enzyme established that under all these conditions enzyme activity corresponded to enzyme concentration and that the octamer was the predominant oligomeric form. When N. crassa was shifted from nitrogen-limiting substrates to excess product as nitrogen source, the concentration of glutamine synthetase was adjusted with kinetics that closely followed dilution by growth. When grown on limiting amounts of glutamate, a lower oligomer was present in addition to the octameric form of the enzyme. When the culture was shifted to excess NH4+, glutamine accululated at a high rate; nevertheless, there was only a slow decrease in enzyme activity and no modification of the oligomeric pattern.
1. A simple method is described for calculating the free concentrations of all species in a mixture of several ionic components that associate at equilibrium to any extent and with any stoicheiometry. 2. It can readily be adapted to take account of species such as protons for which the free rather than the total concentrations are controlled. 3. It was applied to mixtures of adenine nucleotides, Mg2+ and other ions relevant to the study of glucokinase (EC 2.7.1.2), but the qualitative conclusions are not peculiar to this system. 4. ATP exists in a high and nearly constant proportion (about 80%) as MgATP2- in solutions in which the total MgCl2 concentration exceeds the total ATP concentration by 1-10 mM. 5. By contrast, the proportion of ATP present as MgATP2- varies greatly if the total MgCl2 and total ATP concentrations are varied in constant proportion.
Consumption of an ethanol-containing diet by mice resulted in a significant increase in circulating concentrations of corticosterone which was maintained for 8 days. There were no changes in the concentrations of plasma corticosterone binding globulin. Ethanol withdrawal symptoms followed the removal of ethanol from the diet and circulating corticosterone concentrations were further increased. There was no correlation between blood ethanol and glucocorticoid concentrations during the chronic ethanol treatment. Stress related to ethanol consumption may be of greater importance than the circulating ethanol concentrations in producing the elevation in plasma glucocorticoids.
A method for assaying plasma prekallikrein has been developed applying the chromogenic substrate Chromozym PK. Different variables have been investigated, and the final assay system was found to give a reproducible and reliable assay procedure. A normal value of 99.0 +/- 18% was found, the coefficient of variation being 7.9. Studies on material from patients with various liver diseases indicated that the main site of prekallikrein biosynthesis is the liver.
The physical fitness of 120 healthy primigravidae was determined two weeks before term using first the standardized three-stage submaximal work test on the following day the voluntarily maximal pulse-conducted work test on a bicycle ergometer. After the first test the level of lactic acid in the capillary circulation of 115 mothers was examined. Immediately after delivery the pH and the level of lactic acid in the maternal artery, umbilical vein and umbilical artery were determined. The level of lactic acid after the work test was negatively correlated with the physical performance of the mother. The level of lactic acid in the mother after the work test and the levels of lactic acid in the umbilical vessels were positively correlated. The mean pH value in physically fit women after delivery was almost significantly higher than in the women of below average performance. The pH level in the umbilical artery was also almost significantly higher in the mothers with above average performance. The physically fit women appear to work more during delivery than the less fit mothers, as the level of lactic acid after the delivery was as high as or higher than in mothers with a physical performance below average. The physical fitness of six mothers, who delivered an asphyxiated baby, was almost significantly lower than the performance of the mothers. Five mothers with an exceptionally high pH after delivery had a significantly higher performance than the other mothers.
An improved substrate-film technique has been developed for the assay of released proteinase from individual human spermatozoa. During the preparation of the thin gelatin membrane, it is pretreated with formaldehyde and NaOH. These agents alter the plasma membrane and the outer acrosomal membrane of the spermatozoon, facilitating the release of acrosomal enzymes. This effect is further enhanced by the addition of albumin to the incubation mixture. More than 90% of the spermatozoa in a normal ejaculate give a reaction by this method. It reaches a maximum after 4 hours of incubation and does not increase further even up to 12 hours. No difference in the reaction between washed and unwashed ejaculated spermatozoa can be found. The nature of the proteolytic activity and its possible significance in infertility are discussed.
Psoriatic scale proteases were found to be extracted effectively in salt solution (1 mol/l) containing Triton X-100 (5 g/l). The extraction in dilute buffer or sucrose yielded low activities. The acid (0.25 N H2SO4) and KSCN (2 mol/l) solutions effectively extracted plasminogen activator. Fibrinolysin was most active in salt (1 mol/l KCl) and in KSCN (2 mol/l) extracts. Psoriatic scale proteases were fractionated by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration and further by DEAE cellulose chromatography. Five different enzyme preparations were obtained. The first preparation, resembling cathepsin D, effectively hydrolysed hemoglobin at pH 3.5 and casein at pH 5.8 and was insensitive to protease modifiers. The second preparation effectively hydrolysed trypsin substrates (AGLME, TAME, BAEE and BANA) and also histone and casein at pH 7.2 and was inhibited by protease inhibitors, TLCK and E-600. The third preparation hydrolysed histone and casein at pH 10.2 and was effectively inhibited by E-600 and partially by protease inhibitors and TPCK. The fourth preparation, resembling cathepsin B1, hydrolysed BANA and BAEE at pH 5.8 and was activated by SH-reagents and EDTA. The fifth enzyme preparation hydrolysed ATEE and was inhibited by E-600 and TPCK. Plasminogen activator was found mainly in the second enzyme preparation and fibrinolysin activity in the third and fifth enzyme preparations. The second, third and fifth enzyme preparations were different from the enzymes found in healthy human skin. The proteases of psoriatic scale resemble those of tissue and cell cultures undergoing rapid cell division. The possible role of proteases in the increased cell division in psoriasis plaque is discussed.
106 strains of Bacteroides melaninogenicus ss. asaccharolyticus, intermedius and melaninogenicus were tested for production of extracellular blood clotting and fibrinolytic factors. 78.3% of tested strains caused clotting of rabbit plasma and 79.2% activated human plasminogen. Strains producing the clotting or fibrinolytic factor only were isolated. Both factors were quite active, as positive results for most strains were detected within one hour of incubation in controlled test system.
After oral administration of 14C-labeled pentobarbital to healthy subjects, most ot the radioactivity was recovered in urine over a period of 6 days. Only a minute amount (approximately 1%) of unchanged pentobarbital was found in the urine. Four major metabolites were found and isolated. One was 3'-hydroxypentobarbital, which has been previously identified by Maynert. The second could be identified as N-hydroxypentobarbital on the basis of its spectral and chemical properties. The other two metabolites were not identified.
A new spectral species of the purple membrane of Halobacterium halobium has been observed below pH 3.2. The formation of this new species is temperature-dependent and is favoured by increasing temperature up to the physiological range of the organism. The rate of formation at pH 3.0 and 22 degrees C is 7.9 x 10-3s-1. The spectral distribution and temperature-dependence of the new species suggest that it may be phototransiet O, stabilized by low pH. Flash-photolytic experiments in the pH range 7.2-2.7 show a pH-dependence corresponding to the static events and are consistent with a single protonation of bacteriorhodopsin below pH 3.22. These results can also be interpreted in terms of the stabilization of phototransient O at low pH. The temperature-dependence of the formation of the acid-induced species may reflect a relationship with the phase transition of the membrane.
The effect of adult splenectomy on the expression of suppressor and amplifier T cell activity was examined with respect to the serum antibody response to Type III pneumococcal polysaccharide (SSS-III) by using a sensitive radioimmunoassay. Suppressor T cell activity, as measured by the degree of low-dose paralysis induced, was not impaired in the least by splenectomy; however, amplifier T cell activity was almost completely eliminated within 7 days after splenectomy. These findings indicate that suppressor T cell activity is not confined solely to the spleen, the major site of antibody synthesis after immunization with SSS-III, and that the spleen may be an important site for the generation and/or maintenance of amplifier T cell activity.
Diagnostics of heterozygotes are required for population studies, for the detection and consultation of persons with G-6-PD deficiency prone to hemolysis. The diagnostics of heterozygous females with the corresponding trait are problematic in families without hemizygous patients. 1. The determination of the activity is only applicable to the differentiation between heterozygotes and homozygotes if the activities are below the reference range. Heterozygous G-6-PD deficiency with normal activity cannot be identified by this method. 2. Existence of G-6-PD defects is demonstrated by mosaicism even in case of normactivity (Tnztest). 3. Incubation with and without NADP of stroma-free hemolysates involving heat labile enzyme mutants results in a marked decrease of activity within 20 min at 46 degrees C. 4. Electrophoresis on Cellogel demonstrates changes of charge in the mutated enzyme. 5. Family examination verifies suspicion of the heterozygous trait. A combination of parameters is recommended to obtain an improvement in the detection of persons with the heterozygous trait.
Sub-zero temperatures can be used to trap intermediates in enzyme-catalysed reactions using suitable cryosolvents. The feasibility of obtaining such intermediates in the crystalline state for X-ray diffraction studies has been demonstrated with several proteases, using specific substrates and optimal pH.
Bone marrow cells (0,5-10(6)) of female mice of CBA or C57BL strains were injected intravenously to lethally irradiated CBA, C57BL/6, (femaleCBA X maleC57BL/6)F1 and (femaleC57BL/6 X maleCBA)F1 mice. Spleen of recipients as assayed for colony count on the 9th day after bone marrow transplantation by the method of Till and McCullouch. Stem cells of CBA mice demonstrated failure of allogenic inhibition in (CBA X C57BL/6)F1 hybrid mice and formed the same number of colonies as in the spleen of syngenic recipients. The level of allogenic inhibition of CBA stem cells transplanted to (C57BL/6 X X CBA)F1 hybrid mice was 50%. Bone marrow cells of C57BL/6 mice formed colonies in spleen of (CBA X C57BL/6)F1 mice at least in 20 times less than in syngenic combination. In the transplantation of bone marrow from C57BL/6 mice to (C57BL/6 X CBA)F1 hybrid mice the allogenic inhibition was less pronounced (77-85%) as compared with the transfer of cells to (CBA X C57BL/6)F1 hybrid mice (95%). The sex of a recipient did not influence the number of formed colonies. The different level of allogenic inhibition of parental stem cells can not be explained by the effect of linkage with sex as the female of reciprocal hybrid mice have identical structure of sex chromosomes (X(CBA)XC57BL/6). The data obtained indicate that the maternal effect affects allogenic inhibition of stem cells in parent--F1 system. It is possible that the maternal influence may be determined by cytoplasmic factors of inheritance which affect the expressivity of recessive genes Hh, controlling the inheritance of specific haematopoietic cell antigens.
A clinical trial of four weeks duration was conducted involving a total of thirty depressed patients, of both sexes, aged between twenty and thirty-four years. The total number of patients was divided into three groups of ten patients each. One group received amitriptyline, the second group was administered noxiptyline and the third group was given dibenzepine. All drugs were administered orally. Patients were submitted to psychometric testing before and after drug administration. The tests used included the 'Hamilton Rating Scale for depression', the 'Hildreth Feeling Scale' and the 'D Scale' and the 'Trail Making Test' for the evaluation of psychomotor retardation. It was concluded that the Hamilton Rating Scale was the most relatively sensitive test utilized in assessing the depressive state and its improvement. Amitriptyline was found to be mostly anxiolytic; noxiptyline controlled both depression and anxiety to approximately the same extent; and dibenzepine was found to be a mood-elevating drug with an energizing action.
In a sample of 382 heavy users mode and extent of drug abuse were inquired. Factor analysis of the data gave three factors named "i.v. applicated illegal drugs", "oral applicated illegal drugs" and "oral applicated medicaments" for short. Results show that attitudes of the drug users towards their drug uses are strongly influenced by the mode of application and the definitions of the drug laws, whereas pharmacological aspects and subjective effects have hardly any demonstrable importance.
Trauma to the extremities is sometimes dismissed as relatively unimportant in certain radiologic circles. In many instances, radiologic responsibility is denied and relegated to the orthopedist. Although the radiologic manifestations of much trauma to the extremities is clear cut and does not require sophisticated techniques or interpretation, there are many diagnoses which require innovative techniques and a knowledge of mechanisms of injury as well as the subtle oseous and soft tissue manifestations which may be confronted radiologically. The above factors will be stressed along with the need for the fundamental knowledge of radiologic anatomy which is required in order to appreciate some of the more subtle changes of extremity trauma.
Kinetic relationships of photoreduction of 4,4'-dimethyldipyridyl and 4,4'-dibenzyldipyridyl in the presence of chlorplast were studied. It was found that photoreduction leads to the establishment of photosteady state in which the rate of photoreduction is equal to the rate of dark oxidation of reduced form. Kinetics of dark oxidation of photoreduced form were investigated. The study of inhibition of photoreduction of methylviologen and potassium ferricyanide by diuron was performed. It was shown that the nature of inhibition of both reactions is completely identical. The effect of hydrogen ions concentration and gas phase composition was studied. Stabilization of low potential electron acceptors to the oxidation by molecular oxygen in the reaction of photooxidation of water is discussed.
A study based upon transversal sampling involving 13 series of 7 animals each does not show a significant circadian rhythm of testosterone and delta4 androstenedione concentrations in the plasma and testis of the guinea-pig at the age of puberty.
The water-soluble, viscoelastic resin Polyox WSR 301), a poly(ethylene oxide) of high molecular weight (approximately 4 million) is introduces as a new slowing agent for protozoa. Generally, as the kinetic viscosity of the resin increased from 0.25% to 1% (w/v), the swimming velocity of Euglena gracilis, Didnium nasutum, Paramecium aurelia, Blepharisma undulans, and Prorodon platyodon decreased. The 1.0% solution had the highest viscosity and decreased velocity more effectively than 1.0% methyl cellulose and Protoslo solutions. The Polyox solutions differed from those of methyl cellulose and Protoslo by having, in addition to viscous drag, an elastic recoil that pulled the protozoa backwards when their swimming efforts stopped. The toxicity of these slowing agents was determined using 10 P. aurelia/test slide preparation. Paramecium numbers decreased in 1.0% methyl cellulose and Protoslo to nearly zero by 24 hr; in Polyox, not only were most these ciliates alive after 24 hr, but many survived for 96 hr and divisions occurred in 0.25% and 0.50% solutions.
T4 induced RNA ligase will join equimolar concentrations of two oligoribonucleotides, (Ap)3C and p(Up) 5, to form a single product, (Ap)3Cp(Up) 5, in high yield. The presence of the 3' phosphate on p(Up)5 prevents the  oligomer from adding to itself. The pH optimum of the reaction is about 7.5, but less of the undesirable adenylated intermediate, App(Up) 5, forms at pH 8.2. The reaction rate is a linear function of oligomer concentration from 3 micronM to 0.6 mM. The data suggest that T4 RNA ligase will be a useful enzyme for the synthesis of oligomers of defined sequence.
Electrically induced thrombosis is often used for pathophysiologic and therapeutic experiments. The pH value of the vascular wall was measured to approach the features of this thrombosis. After inducing thrombosis by direct current, pH value of the intima of femoral artery was found decreased. The anode was inserted in the lumen. As to the behavior of the pH value, electric thrombosis and clinical thrombosis are similar. Electric thrombosis therefore seems to be valuable for comparing investigations.
The effects of dietary vitamin B-2 and vitamin E on delta9-desaturation  of stearoyl-CoA, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase and electron transport components in rat liver microsomes have been investigated. delta9-desaturase activities were decreased on diets deficient of vitamin B-2, E and supplemented with E. Among the peroxide-scavenging enzymes, only the catalase activity in microsomes correlates significantly with delta9-desaturase activity. In vitro addition of bovine catalase had no effect on microsomal delta9-desaturase activity on control diet. However, it enhanced the delta9-desaturation in microsomes on vitamin B-2-deficient diet which contained low catalase and high superoxide dismutase activities, compared to those in microsomes of control diet. It is suggested that the hydrogen peroxide-generating and -decomposing systems may play an important role on the delta9-desaturase activity in microsomes.
Rabbit knee joints challenged with E. coli 06 underwent a self-limited infection lasting several weeks followed by a prolonged post-infectious inflammatory arthritis. The E. coli used did not possess collagenolytic activity nor did a variety of common aerobic clinical isolates. Articular cartilage destruction occurred by two basically different mechanisms: u) direct invasion of pannus at the juxtaarticular margins, and 2) fibrillation in cartilage to cartilage contact areas. Weekly measurement of intra-articular pH and temperature were correlated with bacteriologic findings and groww and microscopic pathologic events.
Between the acrosomal vacuole and the nucleus is a cup of amorphous material (profilactin) which is transformed into filaments during the acrosomal reaction. In the center of this cup in untreated Thyone sperm is a dense material which I refer to as the actomere; it is composed of 20-25 filaments embedded in a dense matrix. To visualize the substructure of the actomere, the profilactin around it must be removed. This is achieved either by demembranating the sperm with Triton X-100 and then raising the pH to 8.0, or by adding inophores to intact sperm at pH 8.0. Under these conditions, the actomere remains as a unit while the rest of the profilactin is solubilized or polymerized. When demembranated sperm are incubated under conditions in which the actin should polymerize, filaments grow from the end of the actomere: the actomere thus appears to behave as a nucleating body. This observation is strengthened by experiments in which untreated sperm are incubated in seawater or isotonic NaCl at pH 7.0 and the ionophore X537A is added; in this case, only a partial polymerization of the actin occurs and the acrosomal vacuole does not fuse with the cell surface. The actin filaments that do form, however, are attached to the apical end of the actomere. In fact, the elongating filaments push their way into and frequently through the acrosomal vacuole. Thus, it appears that the sperm organizes the actin filaments by controlling their nucleation. My model is that the cell controls the ammount of unbound actin such that it is slightly above the critical concentration for polymerization. Then, spontaneous nucleation is unfavored and polymerization would proceed from existing nuclei such as the actomer.
A rational approach to the design of clinical protocols combining fractionated hyperthermia plus X-irradiation or hyperthermia plus chemotherapy requires an understanding of the biology of fractionated heat alone. Mammalian cells growing in vitro can dramatically increase their tolerance to thermal damage (i.e., reduce the cellular inactivation rate) after prior heat conditioning. Although the mechanism(s) for this cellular thermotolerance is still unknown, it is apparent that the thermal history, the heat fractionation interval, and the recovery conditions all modify significantly the degree of thermotolerance subsequently exhibited. At the tissue level, the role of cellular thermotolerance is further complicated by host physiological mechanisms. Few data are available on heat fractionation in vivo, and the relative importance of physiological versus cellular effects remains to be defined.
The authors studied the activity, chromatographic and electrophoretic distribution of leucylarylamidase, cystinamino peptidase, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase of the cytoplasmatic fraction of cow's rumen mucous membrane homogenate. The results of comparative analysis draw attention to the existence of a certain number of the molecular forms of the enzymes studied, to the activation of leucylarylamidase by Co2+, cystinamino peptidase by Co2+ and Ca2+. The possible functions of the amino peptidases and transpeptidase of glutamic acid in the metabolism of nitrogen compounds of the type of peptides, amino acids, and their amides, are discussed in the study.
Eight disulfides (I-VIII) and a thiolsulfonate (IX) were promising blocking agents of lymphocytes in graft-versus-host reactions (GvHR) without comensurate intracellular effects. The blocking effects were assayed through inhibition of the local GvHR after parental lymphocytes had been incubated with agents at suitable concentrations and then inoculated into F1 hybrid offspring. The intracellular effects were assessed beforehand by measuring the inhibition of [6-3H]thymidine incorporation by lymphocytes in the presence of a wide range of concentrations of agents. Concentration levels which induced no greater than approx. 50% inhibition of the [6-3H] thymidine incorporation were considered to reflect sufficiently small intracellular effects and were used for the subsequent GvHR comparisons. Cellular survival always was 90% or more for the GvHR tests (unless stated otherwise), even when inhibition of thymidine incorporation was as high as 50%; hence the thymidine data are useful not only as guides for dose levels in the GvHR but also as leads to new agents that may show immunosuppressive or anti-leukemic activity through intracellular effects. Structural specificity of the active compounds as cell-surface poisons is evidenced by little or no activity (less than 30% inhibition of GvHR) of 28 other disulfides, 2 trisulfides, 2 Bunte salts, and 8 other thiolsulfonates. Active agents may owe this function to replacement of the H of SH in cell-surface thiol receptors by an SR group. Glutathione did not significantly inactivate agents, probably because the products of reaction also are active disulfides. When two agents (III, IX) were given orally or intraperitoneally to F1 hybrid recipients of untreated parental cells, doses of 10--15 mg/kg produced a GvHR inhibition of 17--53%.
The concentration dependence of the rate of hydrolysis of L-asparagine by Escherichia coli L-asparaginase (L-asparagine amidohydrolase, EC 3.5.1.1) has been measured over the range pH 4.5 to pH 9.1 by a direct spectrophotometric assay at 220 nm and by a coupled assay utilizing glutamate dehydrogenase to detect the ammonia produced. The velocity of the hydrolysis reaction at saturating levels of substrate is independent of pH over this interval. The plot of V/km over the same interval is bell-shaped, being dependent on pKa values of 6.58 and 8.69. The higher pKa is attributed to the amino group of asparagine. The lower pKa is associated with the enzyme active site and is probably due to an imidazole group.
The hypotensive mechanisms of pindolol in anesthetized and conscious rats were investigated. Pindolol caused a fall in blood pressure in anesthetized, conscious and spinal rats, though in conscious rats a higher dose of the drug was required to produce such a response. This hypotension with pindolol in anesthetized and conscious rats was markedly inhibited by pretreatment with the drug itself or other beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs. A similar phenomenon also occurred when isoproterenol was injected intravenously in anesthetized and conscious rats. The relationship between the hypotensive actions of four beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs in anesthetized rats and their intrinsic beta-sympathomimetic actions in isolated catecholamine-depleted tracheal preparations was determined. Order of hypotensive potencies was the same as that of their intrinsic beta-sympathomimetic action, namely, pindolol greater than carteolol greater than bufetolol in equilibrium propranolol (p less than 0.05). These results suggest that the hypotension with pindolol is mediated through a decrease in the peripheral vascular resistance due to an intrinsic beta-sympathomimetic action of the drug.
The enzyme sphingomyelinase (sphingomyelin phosphorylcholine phosphohydrolase E.C.3.1.4.12) which hydrolyzes sphingomyelin to ceramide (N-acylsphingosine) and phosphorylcholine was identified in the subcellular fractions of pig and human epidermis. The enzyme has an optimum pH of 4.5 to 5 and is activated by Triton X-100 (0.1% w/v). Approximately two-thirds of the enzyme activity in both the pig and human epidermal homogenates was in the soluble subcellular fraction and more than half of the enzyme activity in the subcellular particulate fraction was solubilized by freeze-thawing. The pH optimum suggests that epidermal sphingomyelinase is probably a lysozomal enzyme. The enzymes in both pig and human epidermis exhibited Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The soluble sphingomyelinase in pig epidermis had an apparent Km, 4.5 X 10(-5) M and that in human epidermis an apparent Km 7.7 X 10(-5) M. The pig epidermal sphingomyelinase had no special requirement for either divalent or heavy metal ions and was not inhibited by sulfydryl group-blocking agents but it was moderately inhibited by dithiothreitol. No evidence was found in either pig or human epidermis for the presence of a phospholipase C (E.C.3.1.4.3) which hydrolyzes phosphatidylcholine to diglyceride and phosphorylcholine but there was suggestive evidence of another catabolic pathway for phosphatidylcholine.
A method is described for isolectric focusing of complex protein mixtures in 2, 5 or 10 mul capillaries. For one separation only 15- 50 ng of a protein mixture is needed. Isoelectric focusing is finished after 10 min, staining takes 20 min and destaining approximately 30 min. Using defined mixtures of Servalyt from different pH ranges, isoelectric focusing can be adapted to the protein sample to be fractionated. Protein peaks separated by isoelectric focusing can be electrophoretically eluted and for further analysis refractionated directly in a microgradient gel. The resolution power of microisoelectric focusing is as good as that of the wellknown macroprocedure, as is demonstrated by isoelectric focusing of the water soluble proteins from cerebellum and heart, of rat and human serum and of a human oncocytoma of the thyroid gland.
The reduction of methemoglobin by cobaltocytochrome c (Cocyt c) has been measured using nine mediators of different half-reduction potentials, Em, 7. The rate increases with the increase of Em, 7 for the mediator but dropped precipitously when it becomes more positive than the Em, 7 for the methemoglobin/hemoglobin couple. The reaction is most efficient with phenzaine methosulfate, therefore it was studied in detail. The reaction is first order in the concentrations of Cocyt c and phenazine methosulfate. The average second-order rate constant for Cocyt c + phenazine methosulfate (M) k1 leads to Cocyt c+ M-. is 2.9 x 10(4) M-1 s-1 at 25 degrees C, 0.1 M phosphate pH 7.0. There is a slight negative temperature dependence of k1 at low temperature; at higher temperatures the process has deltaH not equal to approximately 27 kJ mol-1 and deltaS not equal to approxmately - 75 J mol-1 K-1. The effect of anions reflects the dependence of Em, 7 for the methemoglobin/hemoglobin couple with various anions. There is no significant effect on k1 by the addition of inositol hexakisphosphate. The variation of k1 with pH is complicated. The experimental rate constants are compared with values calculated with the theory of nonadiabatic multiphonon process of electron tunneling.
In vitro, collagen and collagen-like material in GBM, were demonstrated to have a particular high affinity for any DNA tested (mammalian, bacterial, viral, and plant). GBM fixed DNA 40-80 times more than HGG and BSA and 10-40 times more than bacterial LPS. GBM has a higher affinity for SSDNA than for DSDNA. This binding was inhibited at low pH, low ionic strength, and in the presence of anionic detergents, indicating that the highly negatively charged DNA may interact with the basic site on collagen or GBM by electrostatic forces. This interaction was competitively interfered with by DNA-binding proteins such as Clq. Complexes formed of DNA and anti-DNA antibodies did not exhibit the same binding property as free DNA. However, DNA which was already bound to GBM or to collagen could very efficiently bind anti-DNA antibodies and form immune complexes which would remain on these structures. The biological significance of the binding of DNA to GBM or to collagen should be particularly considered in relation to the pathogenesis of SLE. It is possible that DNA released from disrupted or degenerating cells would bind to surrounding collagen fibers or to basement membranes and then act as an immunoabsorbant for circulating anti-DNA antibodies. Some evidence for an in vivo binding of SSDNA to renal structures was obtained in mice treated with bacterial LPS 2 days before the injection of SSDNA.
The benzodiazepines, medazepam, chlorodiazepoxyde, and oxazepam, act antihemolytically just as chloropromazine in hypotonic NaCl solution on human erythrocytes. The effect depends on concentration and is biphasic with the exception of oxazepam. The maximal antihemolytic concentrations are for medazepam 9.1-10-5 M, for chlorodiazepoxyde 4.6-10-4 M and, respectively, 9.1-10-4 M for diazepam and oxazepam. No linear correlation exists between the concentration at maximal hemolytic protection and the lipid solubility.
During the newborn period, there is a hight increase of the acute toxicity of two steroid anaesthetics (Hydroxydione, Althesin) given by intraperitoneal route on the rat as also an influence of hormonal conditions.
Free and total tryptophan is estimated in the plasma by a spectrofluorimetric method using an amplification reaction and fluorescence by transformation of tryptophan into norharman using formalin and perhydrol (fluorescence is amplified about 15 times). Free tryptophan in the plasma is separated by ultrafiltration under pressure. We verified the analytical characteristics of the method in order to obtain optimal conditions. Values frequently found in 16 blood donors in good health were 10.4 +/- 3.3 micronmol/l. for free tryptophan (average +/- ts for a risk of 5%) and 54.6 +/- 18.6 micronmol/l. for total tryptophan.
It is reported on course and problems of the diagnosis of a lupus erythematodes visceralis with epilepsy. In the demonstrated case the initial stage was characterized by the nearly simultaneous appearance of relapsing arthritides and epilepsy. The diagnosis was made in the stage of an acute exacerbation with cardiac symptomatology which began after the medicamentous treatment with diphenylhydantoin. Up to this moment an oligosymptomatic lupus erythematodes visceralis had not yet been diagnosed. Anamnestic data and the laboratory-clinical findings of the further course of the disease proved the actual lupus erythematodes visceralis. It is referred to the necessity of an aimed anamnesis and a determination of the antinuclear factors before every application ofhydantoin derivations when an epilepsy and joint symptomatology are present.
HA, besides its function in immune processes, is probably a neurotransmitter in mammalian brain. It is synthesized by a specific decarboxylase localized in the cytoplasm of nerve endings. It is stored in synaptic vesicles. Its release might depend on nerve-impulse flow; specific receptors to this amine have been evidenced both electrophysiologically and by the activation of cyclic AMP formation. Lesion studies indicate that histamine-containing neurons might constitute an ascending bundle arising from the brainstem and widely projecting into the whole telencephalon. This disposition, together with neuropharmacological data, suggests that histaminergic neurons, like the monoaminergic ones, might be involved in the control of arousal mechanisms, an idea consistent with the observed fluctuations of the endogenous amine content during the day-night cycle. On the other hand, the investigation of the effect of stress situations on the turnover of HA in brain leads to the conclusion that histaminergic neurons are specifically affected.
Congenital anorchism is a rare condition. Bilateral impa-pable undescended testes are relatively common by comparison. Surgical exploration has been regarded as the final arbiter between anorchism and bilateral cryptorchism. Exploration has not proved completely reliable in making this differentiation. Endocrine studies, particularly the human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) stimulation test together with measurements of basal plasma gonadotropins, can reliably exclude "functioning" testicular tissue. Eleven fully evaluated and operated cases support this contention. In the specific clinical setting of a normal phenotypic male child with a 46XY karyotype and no mllerian structures palpable on rectal examination, nonfunctioning testes on endocrine testing means congenital anorchism and surgical confirmation is unnecessary. In contradistinction, a positive HCG test would appear to mandate through and extensive surgical exploration.
Eight pregnant women and three pregnant sheep received 400 mg of para-amino-hippurate (PAH) intraaminotically. Serial samples of amniotic fluid and maternal blood were obtained. In sheep samples of fetal blood were also withdrawn. PAH appeared in maternal plasma in all the cases. In all pregnant women PAH disappeared slowly from amniotic fluid (50% in 4 hours). In one ewe the study was performed as in humans and showed the same pattern of disappearance. In the other two, fetal urine was drained outside the amniotic fluid and PAH disappeared from it at a much faster rate (90% in 4 hours). PAH concentration in fetal urine was 100 times higher than in fetal plasma. Our findings in pregnant women seem to suggest that PAH disappears from the amniotic sac by a diffusion mechanism. On the other hand the results found in sheep also suggest that the fetus may have an active role in PAH concentration in amniotic fluid, eliminating part of the substance into maternal blood across the placenta but returning a major portion to the amniotic fluid with fetal urine.
Electron paramagnetic resonance and magnetic susceptibility studies of Chromatium flavocytochrome C552 and its diheme flavin-free subunit at temperatures below 45 degrees K are reported. The results show that in the intact protein and the subunit the two low-spin (S = 1/2) heme irons are distinguishable, giving rise to separate EPR signals. In the intact protein only, one of the heme irons exists in two different low spin environments in the pH range 5.5 to 10.5, while the other remains in a constant environment. Factors influencing the variable heme iron environment also influence flavin reactivity, indicating the existence of a mechanism for heme-flavin interaction.
One hundred and forty-seven patients with acute suppurative otitis media, were divided into three groups and treated with antibiotics (azidocillin, ampicillin, and cephalexin). The therapeutic effect was assessed bacterioloically by swabbing from the aural discharge and from the nasopharynx on the first, second, third, and seventh day after initiation of treatment. In addition, the concentration of antibiotic in the aural discharge and in the nasopharynx was determined. As compared with other published materials, there was a common occurrence of Haemophilus influenzae and S. Aureus. Hemolytic streptococci are less common than prior to the advent of antibiotics. Pneumococci disappeared in all cases from the aural discharge in the course of the first three days. The effect upon Haemophilus was slower. In the nasopharynx the effect was questionable, and no effect was obtained upon other bacteria. The clinical course could not be correlated to the bacterial findings except that resistant bacteria were found in all cases with persisting discharge.
The benzofuran analog bufuralol, a beta-adrenergic blocker, was determined in blood and urine by a specific and sensitive spectrofluorometric assay. The compound was extracted into ether from blood or urine adjusted to pH 10. The ether extract was separated by TLC to resolve the parent drug from any basic metabolites present, and the spots were eluted off the silica gel and quantitated fluorometrically in 0.1 N HCl. The overall recovery of the assay was 85 +/- 3.0%; the sensitivity limit was 2-4 ng/ml of blood or urine, using a 2.5-ml specimen/analysis. The method was applied to the determination of blood levels in a dog following a single 10-mg/kg oral dose and in two human subjects administered a single 20-mg oral dose.
In 80 patients with Pneumocystis pneumonitis, the intial signs and symptoms of infection were usually fever and cough, followed by tachypnea and coryza. Flaring of the nasal alae and cyanosis occurred later. Blood gas composition was markedly altered in its acid-base profile in most patients at admission. There was moderate to severe respiratory alkalosis and hypoxia. Clinical manifestations were correlated with the extent of histopathologic changes in the lung. (Deprivation of protein in the diet of rats provoked P. carinii infection.) P. carinii infection was found in children with kwashiorkor; evidence of protein-calorie malnutrition is closely associated with P. carinii pneumonitis in children wiht cancer and other primary diseases. P. carinii pneumonitis proved unique in that the causative organisms remained limited to the lungs even in fatal cases. No toxins have been identified, and systemic effects of the infection were only those that could be related to hypoxia and fever.
Using an IBM 3741 computer, the authors analysed 592 case records of patients aged over 70 years, admitted to hospital on an intensive care unit, age appears to be an important factor in determining the prognosis of numerous diseases without, however, being a criteria for rejection of admission of these patients to an intensive care unit. The fragility of these patients leads one to consider the following parameters: 1--the degree of resuscitation is assessed by quantification of the therapeutic means. As for other patients, survival varies inversely in relation to the important of the therapeutic means, but in the case of the elderly patient, there is a definite difference in the correlation mortality-therapeutic index towards aggravation, so one may determine a ceiling above which survival is not possible; 2--duration of the intensive care is very important. In most cases, the decisive point is situated on the 3rd or 4th day of care, at which time the decision to continue or stop treatment may be considered in the light of the patient's progress.
Spectrophotometric pH titrations of phosphoglycerate kinase (EC 2.7.2.3) reveal seven tyrosyl residues. In the native state one tyrosyl residue has pKapp equal to 9.3, another has pKapp of about 12.9, and five have pKapp values close to 11.0. Titration above pH 10 causes concomitant reduction of the catalytic activity. Reactivation of the enzyme occurs during storage at pH 7.8. In 6 M guanidine - HCl seven tyrosyl residues with pKapp values equal to 10.0 appear. Nitration of three tyrosyl residues occurs easily when tetranitromethane is used in excess. Four tyrosyl residues appear to be masked or buried. The tyrosyl residue having pKapp equal to 9.3 can be selectively nitrated. Simultaneously the enzyme loses 40% of its catalytic activity. No change in the Km value for one or the other of the two substrates, MgATP or 3-phospho-D-glycerate, was observed in the mononitrated enzyme. On the other hand MgATP protects the tyrosyl residue from nitration whereas 3-phospho-D-glycerate at corresponding condition appears harmless. These results suggest the low ionizing tyrosyl residue to be situated close to the binding site of MgATP, possibly in a pocket just behind. Circular dichroism measurements indicated that minor successive changes occur in the secondary structure, mainly the beta-structure, when the enzyme is being nitrated. It is reasonable to think that these structural changes, possible in combination with steric hindrance, are responsible for the decrease in catalytic activity. Dimerization of the enzyme occurs if the single thiol group is not masked before the tetranitromethane treatment.
A rare case of extramembranous pregnancy is reported. It was associated with intermittent loss of liquor and bloody discharge beginning at about the 25th week of gestation. An anencephalic infant was delivered alive from a breech presentation during the 31st week of gestation. The placenta was markedly circumvallate, with short, thick membranes which did not cover more than 10% of the infant. The course of the pregnancy and the examination of the infant and placenta are discussed, and the pertinent literature is reviewed.
The cardiac activity of toxin II, a basic polypeptide (m.w.: 4770) from the sea anemone Anemonia sulcata, was investigated in isolated electrically driven guinea-pig and rat auricles, Langendorff heart preparations of guinea-pigs and cat heart-lung preparations. Low concentrations of toxin II (2-100 nM) evoked a dose-dependent positive inotropic effect in the three different heart muscle preparations investigated. Higher concentrations of toxin II produced toxic symptoms like contracture and arrhythmia in auricles and atria (about 25 nM). In isolated cat hearts high toxin II concentrations (about 160 nM) caused unusual toxic symptoms such as long periods of ventricular fibrillation alternating with periods of normal cardiac activity. In rat and guinea-pig auricles as well as in Langendorff hearts of guinea-pigs the extent and rate of the positive inotropic effect induced by toxin II depended on the extracellular calcium concentration (0.45 to 2.7 mM). Toxin II did not alter the heart rate in spontaneously beating isolated cat hearts. In electrically driven guinea-pig auricles, the rate of the inotropic effect induced by toxin II was accelerated by increasing stimulation frequencies. Toxin II did not change the coronary flow in Langendorff heart preparations of guinea-pigs.
Hamster liver microsomes catalyze the N-hydroxylation of the 4'-OCH3, 4'-OCH2CH3, 4'-O(CH2)2CH3, and 4'-O(CH2)3CH3 analogs of trans-4-acetamidostilbene. Other metabolites which were identified were the O-deethylation product of the 4'-OCH2CH3 analog as well as the alpha,beta-epoxides of the 4'-OCH2CH3 and 4'-O(CH2)2CH3 compounds and the (omega-1)-hydroxylation product of trans-4'-n-butoxy-4-acetamidostilbene. The kinetics of metabolism of the 4'-O(CH2)3CH3 analog were determined, but the rates of formation of the metabolites of the other members of the series were not linearly related to substrate concentration.
The clinical inequivalence of generic versus trade-name drugs has been reported for nonpsychiatric drugs but rarely for psychotropic drugs. Recent expiration of patents on some psychotropic drugs has made the evaluation of the clinical equivalence of generic versus trade-name drugs a matter of interest from methodological, sociopolitical, and economic aspects. The authors discuss these points, with emphasis on methodology, in their report of a double-blind study of the efficacy of chlorpromazine and Thorazine in the treatment of 54 acute schizophrenic patients. An analysis designed to infer the maximum possible advantage of Thorazine over generic chlorpromazine indicated that differences between the two were clinically insignificant.
In the normal anesthetized dog the combination of insulin, whether of exogenous or endogenous origin, with sodium dichloroacetate provoke a rapid and important reduction of the hyperlactatemia and hyperpyruvicemia induced by the intraduodenal injection of high doses of phenformin. Furthermore this combination prevents the progressive and important lowering of the arterial pH provoked by phenformin.
The mechanism of the biosynthetic pathway of collagen is briefly summarised. The hereditary enzyme deficiencies of this pathway concern some of the Ehlers-Danlos syndromes. Seven clinically well defined varieties of these syndromes have been recognized, all presenting, as common feature, an hyperextensivitry of joints and hyperelastic, excessively fragile skin. In three of these seven varieties, the enzyme defect has been recently discovered: the type V (associated with chromosome X) is characterized by the deficiency in the lysyl-oxidase, the type VI (ocular) by the deficiency in lysyl-hydroylase; in the type VII (arthrolaxis multiplex congenita) the activity of tropocollagen-peptidase is practically absent. These enzyme deficiencies provide a molecular basis for the interpretation of the pathogenesis of these varieties of the Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.
Weak or weak intermediate reactions in one-way mixed lymphocyte culture (MLC) were seen between a patient and at least one parent in the families of 6 of 15 patients with severe combined immunodeficiency disease, 3 of 4 patients with Fanconi's anemia, and 3 of 7 patients with congenital neutropenia (CN). In control family material, weak MLC reactions were seen in 1.4 per cent (4 of 285) of individual parent-child and child-parent combinations or in 2.1 per cent (3 of 143) of the total number of parent-child pairs. The increase in frequency of weak MLC reactions seen in the familes of patients with severe combined immunodeficiency disease and Fanconi's anemia occurred most frequently between mother and patient. This finding could be relevant to the pathogenesis of these diseases. In children with CN, the disease seems to be associated with the HLA antigen B12; in addition, two of the patients with CN appear to be homozygous for HLA-D. Because of the relatively frequent compatibility seen in MLC reactions between parents and children with severe combined immunodeficiency disease, Fanconi's anemia, and CN, it is suggested that those parents could be potential donors for bone marrow transplantation.
Cholesterol ester hydrolase activity was determined in preparations of rabbit and guinea pig aorta utilizing micellar and glycerol-dispersed cholesterol oleate substrates. Both substrate preparations demonstrated an acid pH optimum of 4--5 for the soluble and particulate rabbit media cholesterol ester hydrolase, suggesting a lysosomal origin for this activity. Approximately one-fifth of the total recovered activity was particulate. Particulate media preparations from guinea pig aorta also demonstrated cholesterol ester hydrolase activity at acid pH values with a definite optimum at pH 5 for the glycerol-dispersed substrate. However, in contrast to the rabbit media enzyme, activity was also observed at neutral pH with another optimum at pH 7. The supernatant enzyme from guinea pig media exhibited only a single pH optimum of 7. Cholesterol ester hydrolase activity from either rabbit or guinea pig media was not influenced by preincubation with cyclic AMP, ATP and protein kinase. The addition of chloroquine resulted in the inhibition of both the rabbit and guinea pig enzyme. Cholesterol ester hydrolase activity from rabbit and guinea pig media was also inhibited by phenyl methane sulfonyl fluoride; activity measured at pH 7 (guinea pig) was more sensitive to inhibition than activity measured at pH 5 (guinea pig and rabbit).
The cellular basis of the age-related decline in the functional capacity of many mammalian organs is still poorly understood. In this paper, the rat liver is presented as a promising model for studying cellular phenomena underlying organ ageing. The recent development of methods for isolation and purification of parenchymal, Kupffer and endothelial cells from the rat liver makes possible the comparison of functional and metabolic changes in the intact liver with changes in distinct liver cell classes isolated from rats of various age groups. An attempt has been made to correlate age changes in some important liver-specific functions, such as bromsulophthalein uptake and albumin synthesis, at the organ and at the cellular level. To compare cellular ageing phenomena in long-lived cells (parenchymal cells) and short lived cells (Kupffer and endothelial cells) from the same organ, the role of lysosomes in cellular ageing processes was investigated, with secial reference to the functioning of the lysosomal enzyme cathepsin D. The specific cathepsin D activity in Kupffer cells was abour 3 times higher than in endothelial cells and about 20 times higher than in parenchymal cells. The enzyme activity in the latter cell type showed a significant increase with age.
1. Oxygen consumption and central haemodynamics were recorded at rest and during exercise in fifty-one men with essential hypertension (W.H.O. stage I) and repeated after 1 year on a single drug: alprenolol (n equals 10), atenolol (13) metoprolol (12) and timolol (16). 2. Mean arterial pressure was significantly reduced in all groups at rest (11-18%) and during exercise (5-11%). Heart rate was significantly reduced in all groups (20-28%) at rest and (17-26%) during exercise. Owing to increase in supine resting and exercise stroke volume in the alprenolol and atenolol group, cardiac index decreased less than heart rate---in contrast to the timolol group where cardiac index was decreased 26-32%. The calculated post-treatment total peripheral resistance was significantly increased at rest and during exercise in the timolol group. In the other groups the total peripheral resistance was significantly increased at rest when sitting, but not at rest when supine and during exercise. 3. It is concluded that the major haemodynamic changes induced in subjects with moderate and mild essential hypertension by these different beta-receptor blockers are the same, but that minor differences exist with respect to effect upon stroke volume and total peripheral resistance.
Rat liver particulate neutral ribonuclease (EC 3.1.4.22) was extensively purified (up to 40000-fold). It is shown to be an endonuclease, specific for pyrimidine bases, hydrolysing 5'-phosphate ester bonds. The enzyme specificity, Km, pH optimum, stability in acid medium and thermal stability at high temperature are the same as those of rat pancreatic and serum ribonucleases. Like pancreatic and serum neutral ribonucleases, the hepatic enzyme is sensitive to the liver natural inhibitor. This inhibitor was purified 8000-fold; its association with ribonuclease follows zero-order kinetics. These identical properties for ribonuclease of rat liver, pancreas and serum support the hypothesis [Bartholeyns, Peeters-Joris & Baudhuin (1975) Eur. J. Biochem. 60, 385-393] of an extrahepatic origin for the liver enzyme, the plasma ribonuclease of pancreatic origin being taken up by endocytosis in the liver. Neutral ribonuclease activity was detected in all rat organs investigated; its distribution among tissues is different from the distribution of the natural ribonuclear inhibitor.
A water in oil emulsion technique is proposed to investigate enzyme catalyzed reactions at sub-zero temperatures in the supercooled liquid state to avoid some reversible effects of the usual cosolvents on kinetics. Some results are listed: potentialities and technical problems of the procedure are discussed.
Cell-mediated immunity in humans to antigens derived from oral plaque bacteria was investigated by using the lymphocyte blastogenesis assay. Subjects with varying severities of periodontal disease including normal, gingivitis, periodontitis, and edentulous were compared. Mononuclear leukocytes were separated from peripheral blood and cultured with antigens prepared by sonication of Actinomyces viscosus (AV), Actinomyces naeslundii (AN), Veillonella alcalescens (VA), Leptotrichia buccalis (LB), Bacteroides melaninogenicus (BM), and homologous dental plaque (DP). The lymphocyte response of subjects with gingivitis or periodontitis was significantly greater than that of normal subjects to antigens of AV, AN, and DP, but did not differ from the response of edentulous subjects. Periodontitis subjects were significantly more reactive than edentulous and normal subjects in response to VA, LB, and BM. These findings suggest that the tested gram-negative bacteria and the host response they evoke are associated with advanced periodontal destruction.
The rock hyrax, smallest of the present day ungulates and a near relative of the elephant, has a gastrointestinal tract of such complex nature that it may be considered ccomparable to both the simple and complex stomach mammals, and also to birds. They have a stomach to body weight capacity equal to that of sheep. But for all its complexity, the passage of ingesta is reasonably rapid. However, there are three major sites of digesta retention and microbial fermentation of the ingested material. The cranial stomach provides the first major site of fermentation with VFA levels comparable to those observed in the rumen (125-145 mM/liter). Quantities of lactic acid are also produced in the foregut where the pH may vary from 2 to 5.5. The ingested particulate material is exclusively retained in the cranial half of the stomach for 4 hours after consumption, and partially retained in the entire stomach for greater than 24 hours. The mid-gut sacculation provides the second major site of fermentation with the retention of the digesta in this gut segment for up to 16 hours. The two ceca provide the third site. Concentrations of VFA in these latter two gut segments approaches 80 mM/liter, while the near stable and neutral pH corresponds to the absence of lactic acid production.
Tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylase activity was studied in the postnatal rat brain in vivo by measuring the accumulation of dihydroxyphenylalanine and 5-hydroxytryptophan, respectively after inhibition of L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase with NSD 1015. With increasing age there was a significant increase in the amount of dopa and 5-HTP accumulated in the brain after administration of NSD 1015. After 30 min in a 12% oxygen environment there were significant reductions of tyrosine hydroxylase and tryptophan hydroxylase activity at 1,14 and 28 but not 4 days of postnatal age. Further, the decrease in 5-HTP accumulation was significantly more marked at 14 and 28 days than at 1 day of age. Thus, the oxygen-dependent synthesis of the neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine seems to be less vulnerable in the early postnatal rat brain.
Twin boys, both of whom had hypospadias and bilateral cryptorchidism, each developed a left-sided Wilms's tumour. The first twin was found to have an advanced multifocal tumour at the age of 15 months and died with local recurrence and pulmonary metastases. The diagnosis was made in the second twin one month later and at nephrectomy the tumour was found to be encapsulated without metastases; he is disease-free 12-years later. Although the histological appearances were similar in each twin, the tumours did not develop at the same rate and did not show the 'mirror-image' pattern suggested for embryonal tumours in identical twins.
The rate and extent of acid consumption of an antacid suspension and tablet were evaluated by in vitro and in vivo techniques. Four different test procedures were used to estimate in vitro antacid reactivity. In vivo effects were determined in the fasted and postcibal states in normal human subjects by a radiotelemetry procedure. The duration of elevation of intragastric pH greater than 3 was in agreement with in vitro estimates of total acid consumption of the antacid. There was also good correlation between onset, extent, and duration of in vivo antacid activity and a modified in vitro Beekman antacid test procedure. There was no significant difference in antacid activity of the tablet or suspension in either in vitro or in vivo test procedures. A wide variation in antacid activity was observed between subjects and also in the fasted versus postcibal states. These studies emphasize the requirements for standardization of antacid products by comparactive in vitro and in vivo evaluations to facilitate individualized dose titration  of the antacid in each patient and correlation of the acid secretion rate in various types of GI disease with the antacid dose.
We reported on the haemodynamic effects of 0.03 mg/kg flunitrazepam during surgical procedures in neuroleptanalgesia in 39 patients with congenital or acquired heart diseases, functional class II-IV. The benzodiazepine derivative did not cause any relevant effect on the inotropic state of the myocardium. There were only minor changes in cardiac index, stroke index, right and left atrial pressure. Changes in arterial pressure and left ventricular pressure during and immediately after surgical procedures, and in arterial perfusion pressure during extracorporeal circulation, as well as an only short lasting increase in heart rate were demonstrative a peripheral vasodilator effect. The decrease in ventricular work and myocardial oxygen consumption are of value in patients with coronary heart disease, especially immediately after surgical procedures. Flunitrazepam is considered an additional drug during neuroleptanalgesia, when hypertension is causing some problems.
The authors compared the drug use of 23 patients with 5 or more major surgeries (mean number of surgeries = 9.8) with that of a matched control group (mean number of surgeries = 1). Total drug use of the polysurgical patients was 3.7 times greater than that of the controls and involved narcotics, analgesics, barbiturates, and minor tranquilizers. The authors describe the characteristics of polysurgical patients, one of which is chronic pain, and propose a treatment plan that involves psychological intervention for the patient and his or her family.
A 10-mo-old baby girl with homozygous beta0 thalassemia and alphaJOxford, presenting the clinical picture of homozygous beta thalassemia is described. Hemoglobin electrophoresis showed three bands: the first two with the mobilities of hemoglobin Hb A2 (1%) and Hb F (69%), respectively, the third migrating a little faster than Hb A (30%). About 30% of her alpha chains were J Oxford which, bound to her gamma chains, produced a new alkali-resistant hemoglobin, alpha2 J Oxford gamma F2, which has not been described previously. Hemoglobin synthesis in vitro showed the absence of beta chain synthesis and an alpha/non-alpha ratio of 2. The patient's father was heterozygous for both the Hb J Oxford and beta0 thalassemia genes, the mother a carrier of beta0 thalassemia; four other relatives were carriers of Hb J Oxford, and one was a carrier of beta thalassemia.
Anhydrotrypsin was isolated in high purity from the product of base elimination from phenylmethanesulfonyl-trypsin, by a single operation of affinity chromatography. The adsorbent used for the chromatography was an agarose derivative coupled with peptides containing C-terminal arginine residues. As the affinity of the adsorbent for anhydrotrypsin was high compared with that for trypsin, purification of the enzyme derivative was easily achieved without the prior inactivation of trypsin which had been regenerated during the elimination reaction. Comparative studies of the ligand interaction specificities with anhydrotrypsin and trypsin confirmed the stronger interaction of the former protein with product-type ligands such as Bz-Arg-OH. No marked differences were observed between them in affinities toward substrate-type ligands such as Bz-Arg-NH2. The higher affinity of anhydrotrypsin was found to be limited to product-type ligands of L-configuration, i.e., the protein displayed an ability to discriminate the L-ligand from its optical isomer. THE PKa value for the ionization form of anhydrotrypsin responsible for the interaction with Bz-Arg-OH was estimated to be 7.60+/-0907
The arterial acid-base balance and other selected physiologic measures of physically restrained and chemically immobilized nonhuman primates from the families Callithricidae, Cebidae, Cercopithecidae, and Pongidae were compared. The physically restrained primates had significantly lower pH, pCO2, and base excess values, but they had significantly higher pO2 values, rectal temperatures, and pulse and respiration rates. Of 56 physically restrained primates, 30 (54%) experienced severe metabolic acidosis, with pH values less than 7.2; 15 (27% of total) had pH values less than 7.1. Two types of behavior were observed during the physical restraint of golden marmosets. Some of the marmosets were excited during restraint, with a great deal of struggling and vocalizing. The other marmosets were quiet and calm, with minimal struggling. The excited group had significantly lower pH, pCO2, and base excess values, but significantly higher pO2 values, rectal temperatures, and pulse and respiration rates. Primates immobilized with ketamine or tiletaminezolazepam had a near normal acid-base balance and were handled more easily than the physically restrained animals.
The preoperative effects of oral oxypertine have been compared with those of papaveretum and atropine in 185 patients in a double-blind between-patient study. Oxypertine 20 mg given orally as a nocturnal sedative and again on the morning of operation produced relief of anxiety comparable to that of papaveretum 10 mg and atropine 0.6 mg. It is concluded that oxypertine may be of value in medication before anaesthesia.
There is no evidence as a result of this study to preclude that the LEGS Program is not worthwhile. Achievement of State Board Examination Scores have not suffered as a result of this method of instruction, at least in the three schools studied. Statistically, there is no significant difference in mean achievement of State Board Examination Scores as a result of the two methods of nursing instruction. Efforts should be made to improve upon the further investigate this new method of nursing instruction.
At the Marie Lannelongue surgical centre between 1964 and 1975, out of 278 patients with trauma of the thorax, we noted only 10 cases of tracheal-bronchial rupture admitted as an emergency = 9 ruptures due to closed trauma of the thorax, one with division of the lower part of the trachea. Analysis of these cases showed in particular:-the notion of violent trauma in -young subjects (average age: 20 years). In these thoracic injuries suspected of tracheal-bronchial rupture, the anaesthetist intervenes in four early stages: 1) arrival of the injured patient 2) bronchoscopy-diagnosis 3) surgical operation, the anaesthetic problems are linked to various factors, the most important of which are the very precarious cardio-respiratory condition, the lack of information and, sometimes, the lack of time. 4) Post-operative respiratory resuscitation.
Leghemoglobin(IV), the derivative of leghemoglobin at the formal oxidation state IV, when cooled to liquid nitrogen temperature exhibits radically different spectra at acid and alkaline pH. The acid and alkaline forms are freely interconvertible. The optical spectrum of the acid form is closely similar to optical spectra of the red higher oxidation states of horseradish and cytochrome c peroxidases, showing that the configuration of the heme iron is the same throughout this family of compounds. That configuration is believed to be Fe(IV) in a porphyrin environment. The optical spectrum of the alkaline form of leghemoglobin(IV) recalls that of alkaline low spin ferric leghemoglobin. Near infrared spectra of leghemoglobin(IV), myoglobin(IV), and the higher oxidation states of the peroxidases are featureless to 1300 nm, suggesting a common structural feature. The acid form of leghemoglobin(IV), seen in fluid buffer as a transient species at pH 5 or less, is conveniently generated by cooling a solution of the more stable alkaline form in borate buffer to liquid nitrogen temperature. At this temperature borate buffers become acid.
The results of a pharmacopsychological study on male students high or low in emotional stability are compared to those of a clinical study on neurotic out- and inpatients. These studies examine the effects of diazepam and various doses of a thienodiazepine (Bay g 5653), a drug under investigation. Although the studies are not completely comparable (placebo control missing in the clinical study, not enough information about comparable base line measures) the differences in effects of Bay g 5653 and diazepam on the actual emotional state, as measured by an adjective check list, show a certain amount of correspondence between normal subjects and patients but also considerable discrepancies.
The optimal conditions for the cytochemical localization of 5'-nucleotidase (AMPase) in the mouse lymphocyte have been established. Quantitative monitoring of the effects of fixation and the components of the cytochemical medium showed that the cytochemistry can be performed under conditions that do not lead to loss of AMPase activity, and also under conditions where penetration of the substrate into the cell has occurred. The cytochemical reaction product was seen only on the surface of a proportion of splenic lymphocytes, regardless of the fixative used. Biochemical data confirmed that AMPase is an ectoenzyme and is the only protein in splenic lymphocytes capable of catalysing the hydrolysis of AMP. The activity of 5'-nucleotidase was studied also by harvesting cells either from thymus or spleen of A/ST or Cd-1 mouse strains. The enzymatic activity in splenic lymphocytes was more than six time higher than the activity of intact thymus cells. Cytochemically it was evident that within splenic lymphocytes there was a distinct population of lymphocytes with readily demonstrable AMPase activity, and another with no cytochemically demonstrable AMPase activity. It was concluded that murine lymphocytes vary in their activity of AMPase, and that the enzyme is exclusively confined to the cell surface.
Highly purified glutamine synthetase has been isolated from Chlorella and immobilized on BrCN-sepharose. Its residual activity was 25-35%. Immobilized glutamine synthetase showed far greater thermal stability than glutamine synthetase in solution. During immobilization pH optimum of the enzyme was shifted towards the alkaline area, maximum rate of the reaction was reduced and KM remained unaltered.
1. At neutral pH ferricytochrome c is reduced by the superoxide anion radical (O2-), without loss of enzymatic activity, by a second order process in which no intermediates are observed. The yield of ferrocytochrome c (82-104%), as related to the amount of O2- produced, is slightly dependent on the concentration of sodium formate in the matrix solution. 2. The reaction (k1 equals (1.1+/-0.1) - 10(6) M-1 - s-1 at pH 7.2, I equals 4 mM and 21 degrees C) can be inhibited by superoxide dismutase and trace amounts of copper ions. The inhibition by copper ions is removed by EDTA without interference in the O2- reduction reaction. 3. The second-order rate constant for the reaction of O2- with ferricytochrome c depends on the pH of the matrix solution, decreasing rapidly at pH greater than 8. The dependence of the rate constant on the pH can be explained by assuming that only the neutral form of ferricytochrome c reacts with O2- and that the alkaline form of the hemoprotein is unreactive. From studies at pH 8.9, the rate for the transition from the alkaline to the neutral form of ferricytochrome c can be estimated to be 0.3 s-1 (at 21 degrees C and I equals 4 mM). 4. The second-order rate constant for the reaction of O2- with ferricytochrome c is also dependent on the ionic strength of the medium. From a plot of log k1 versus I1/2-(I + alphaI1/2)-1 we determined the effective charge on the ferricytochrome c molecule as +6.3 and the rate constant at I equals 0 as (3.1+/-0.1) - 10(6) M-1 - s-1 (pH 7.1, 21 degrees C). 5. The possibility that singlet oxygen is formed as a product of the reaction of O2- with ferricytochrome c can be ruled out on thermodynamic grounds.
In 61 patients in whom high doses of corticoids had been administered owing to various indications, the hemodynamic modifications caused by this injection were studied. The corticoids administered were : hydrocortisone hemisucccinate (150 mg/kg), methyl prednisolone sulfate (30 mg/kg), prednisone sodium m sulfobenzoate (50 mg/kg), prednisolone sodium m sulfobenzoate (35 mg/kg) and dexamethasone phosphate (2 mg and 6 mg/kg). The results study the modifications caused by each drug on heart rate, arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, systolic stroke volume and peripheral vascular resistance. The expression of the results is given as a percentage of the variation with statistical study. Methyl-prednisolone sulfobenzoate only leads to slightly marked hemodynamic effects : the four other compounds studied have definite hemodynamic effects, of variable intensity and duration. The most important variations are noted with dexametasone phosphate. From these results, the indications and results of the use of corticoids in states of shock are discussed.
Amoxapine possesses a broad spectrum of psychotropic actions, including antidepressant and neuroleptic effects in animals. Antidepressant activity is characterized by its ability to inhibit tetrabenazine-induced depression, antagonize reserpine-induced hypothermia and enhance yohimbine lethality. Neuroleptic activity is demonstrated by the ability of amoxapine to decrease locomotor activity, induce ptosis and catalepsy, inhibit apomorphine gnawing and amphetamine stereotyped behavior and by characteristic changes in monkey discriminated avoidance behavior. The fact that punished responding in squirrel monkeys was present was present after repeated administration may indicate an anti-anxiety action of this drug. Evidence is offered that the conversion of the tertiary terminal nitrogen to a secondary amine may alter the pharmacologica properties of dibenzoxazepines in a similar way to the for the phenothiazines.
The diaphragm muscle (the red muscle) and m. obliquus externus abdominis (the white muscle) were incubated in phosphate buffer at pH 7.4 and 6.8 in the presence of different concentrations of sodium lactate (0, 5, 10 and 30 mM). None of the used lactate concentrations changed significantly glucose uptake by the both muscles at pH 7.4.  At pH 6.8 lactate in a concentration of 30 mM decreased significantly glucose uptake by the white muscle. At pH 7.4 glucose uptake by the white muscle was significantly lower than that by the red one in the presence of 10 and 30 mM of sodium lactate while at pH 6.8 in the absence of lactate and in the presence of 5 and 30 mM of lactate. Acidosis affected in smaller degree glucose uptake by the red muscle than by the white one. It may be supposed that the impairement of glucose uptake by acidosis and lactic acid in strenously working skeletal muscles can limit the amount of energy sources available for the muscles. Subsequently, it may be one of the factors limiting the ability of the muscles to continue the exhausting exercise.
The apparent stability of combinations of hydroxyzine hydrochloride and meperidine hydrochloride (50 mg/2 ml each) and of these two drugs (50 mg/2.5 ml each) and atropine sulfate (0.4 mg/2.5 ml) in prefilled glass and plastic syringes was studied. Syringes (3 ml) containing the combinations were stored at 25 C and 3 C for 10 days and analyzed at specific time intervals. Absorption spectra, chromatographic characteristics and pH were determined in addition to visual inspection. Results of these qualitative tests indicated that the mixtures apparently were stable for 10 days at room temperature or when refrigerated. No differences were found between solutions stored in glass and those stored in plastic syringes. Degradation of the syringe contents or appearance of additional constituents was not detected in any of the admixtures, and they were considered to be chemically compatible within the limitations of the study. The study suggests that storage of these combinations in syringes is feasible but the results cannot be extrapolated to drug solutions or syringes other than those studied.
To characterize further a putative dopamine receptor in the renal artery, the effects of dopamine on canine renal artery adenylate cyclase activity were studied. Since the femoral artery is thought to be devoid of a similar dopamine receptor, the effects of dopamine on the adenylate cyclase activity of the canine femoral artery were also studied. In tissues from dogs with or without phenoxybenzamine pretreatment, renal artery adenylate cyclase was maximally stimulated by 4 muM dopamine, compared to 20 muM required for the femoral artery enzyme. The concentrations of isoprenaline required to maximally stimulate renal and femoral artery adenylate cyclase were 0-04 and 0-2 muM, respectively. In tissue from the phenoxybenzamine-pretreated dog, the sitmulatroy effect of dopamine on the renal artery enzyme was selectively blocked by 0-01 muM haloperidol, but not by 0-2 muM propranolol. In the femoral artery, however, the dopamine stimulation was blocked by both antagonists. Stimulation by isoprenaline of renal and femoral artery adenylate cyclase was blocked by propranolol. These data suggest the concept that dopamine interacts with a specific artery receptor apparently different from alpha-and beta-adrenoceptors.
Histopathological observations on the conduction system of the heart were carried out in three cases of panarteritis nodosa. This specialized tissue was involved in each case secondary to ischemia and/or periarterial extension of the inflammatory process affecting the nutrient arteries of the conducting system. The high risk of disturbances in impulse formation and conduction in patients with panarteritis is emphasized as well as the need for appropriate clinical investigation (protracted cardiac monitoring and control by catheter recording and stimulation) in order to secure early detection and prevention of life-threatening arrhythmias.
This work reports some enzymatic properties of highly purified horse spleen cathepsin D. Hydrolysis rate of several proteins are compared. The Kinetic constants (Km = 4.95 10(-5) M and Vm = 1,76 delta DO/mn/mug) have been determined in the presence of a denatured haemoglobin substrate. Stability of the enzymatic preparation is discussed according to the pH, concentration and time of storage. Some investigations concerning the active site are described. Enzymatic and chemical results show that dicarboxylic and tryptophanyl residues seem to be involved in the hydrolytic process. Catalysis does not depend on sulfhydryl or seryl residues. Different salts, particularly nitrate, nitrite and polyphosphate are potent inhibitors of enzymatic activity.
The paper describes a model of motion sickness for dogs. The method is based on the simultaneous use of vertical and rotatory movement of the device with a continuously varying angular velocity of rotation to generate Coriolis acceleration. The exposure increases significantly the number of sick animals to be used in the selection of antimotion drugs. Diphenidol, marezine, tigane, bromotigane and metachloropromide were tested. Diphenidol and to a lesser extent marezine and metachloropromide proved effective. Tigane and bromotigane were ineffective against motion sickness.
Neurosurgical patients, whether injured or not, have benefited in recent years from a new technique of supervision, measurement of thr intracranial pressure (ICP). Thus, measurement of a pressure figure and its course, gives precious information, both diagnostic and therapeutic. Various techniques of measurement are now proposed. We chose, for special reasons, measurement of the ICP within the ventricle. A catheter is introduced into the ventricle through a trephine hole. It is linked by a liquid column to a recording system (cathode oscilloscope, ink writer or magnetic tape). A slow inscriber permits continuous recording of the ICP for several days or even weeks. In view of the narrow dependency of the ICP on other physiological parameters, it seemed to us essential to record simultaneously 5 other parameters, the temperature, the blood pressure, the central venous pressure, the heart rate and the respiratory ventilation, by measurement of FeCO2 (capnography). Several forms of treatment have been proposed to bring down a raised ICP (greater than 15 mm Hg), e.g. osmotic diuresis, hyperventilation, corticosteroid therapy. Removal of CSF by ventriculalar catheter, sometimes permits one to pass over the critical period. It was in this background that we attempted to analyse the effect of neuroleptics on the ICP, without attempting to explain their mechanism of action. Our study was of 10 patients with cranial trauma, of both sexes, aged from 14 to 60 years. The intracranial pressure was measured within the ventricle and correlated with the other physiological parameters. When the ICP was normal, e.g. primary lesion of the brain stem, administration of neuroleptics such as chlorpromazine 100 mg IV/24 hours, or levopromazine 50 mg IV/24 hours, does not modify the value of the ICP. On the other hand, in the case of raised intracranial pressure due to contusion with cerebral oedema, for example, the administration of neuroleptic drugs seems to provide a very slight reduction in this pressure. It would be interesting to measure, at the same time as the ICP, the cerebral blood flow.
Only a few pneumococcal serotypes are responsible for the majority of cases of acute otitis media due to Streptococcus pneumoniae in children. The immunopathogenesis of otitis media cause by two serotypes, type 3 and 23, was studied in chinchillas. Chinchillas with type 23 pneumococcal otitis media were capable of clearing the infection over a six-week period without treatment, whereas the type 3 infection persisted throughout the six-week study. In addition, bacteremia or meningitis occurred more frequently and earlier with type 3 pneumococcal otitis media than with type 23. The resolution of the type 23 pneumococcal infection paralleled the development of type-specific antibody, as measured by radioimmunoassay, whereas type 3 infection was associated with a fall in serum antibody to low levels. Since the pathogenesis of pneumococcal otitis media in the chinchilla differs between pneumococcal serotypes, it may be important to correlate pneumococcal serotypes with sequealae and recurrence of otitis media in children.
1-(4-iodophenoxy)-3-isopropylaminopropan-2-ol (IIP) is a potent beta-adrenergic antagonist which has been labelled to high specific activity with 125I and used to bind to rat myocardial membranes. The characteristics of binding were consistent with the known properties of beta-receptors. Thus, binding was highly stereospecific for the L-stereoisomer since L-propranolol was two orders of magnitude more potent than the D-isomer in competing for these sites. The beta-adrenergic agonists isoproterenol, epinephrine and norepinephrine competed for binding with potencies paralleling their pharmacological potencies as beta-adrenergic effectors. The dissociation constant for binding of IIP was 4--5 nM as measured either by direct binding studies or by its inhibition of isoproterenol stimulated adenylate cyclase. Binding was saturable with 0.06 pmoles of IIP per mg of membrane protein binding at saturation. 125IIP is a high affinity, high specific activity ligand suitable for use as a selective probe for the detection and quantitation of cardiac beta-receptors. Its introduction should help solve the problems involved in the investigation of myocardial beta-adrenergic receptors.
The effect of the administration of 1-ascorbic acid, either alone or combined with clomiphene, upon induction of human ovulation was investigated in clomiphene-inffective anovulatory women. Oral administration of daily 400 mg of ascorbic acid induced ovulation in two out of five habitually anovulatory cycles and in one out of eight first-grade amenorrhea cases, and was ineffective in all six second-grade hypothalamic amenorrhea cases. Combined administration of ascorbic acid with 5 days of clomiphene induced ovulation in five out of five habitually anovulatory cycles, in 10 out of 17 first-grade hypothalamic amenorrhea cases, and in two out of nine second-grade hypothalamic amenorrhea cases. Pregnancy was established in eight out of 18 sterile, habitually-anovulatory or first-grade amenorrheic women with the combined ascorbic acid-clomiphene therapy, and in one out of five sterile, habitually anovulatory women with ascorbic acid therapy alone. Since administration of ascorbic acid induced no changed in blood FSH, LH, and amount of cervical mucus, and it is well established that LH decreases dose-dependency of the ascorbic acid content in the rat ovaries, the possible site of action of ascorbic acid seems to be at the ovarian level.
4-Phenylspiro [furan-2(3H),1-phtalan]3,3'-dione (fluorescamine) was used to covalently modify amino groups of thylakoids. Subsequently its effect on parameters of energy transfer and phosphorylating activity was assessed. While electron transport, the extent of proton uptake, 515 nm change and 9-aminoacridine quench were relatively resistant to such treatment, the functions connected to coupling factor 1, namely ATP formation by acid/base transition, ATPase activity and photophosphorylation were  affected much earlier. Photophosphorylation appears to be the most sensitive. The data are interpreted as indicating an involvement of free amino groups in energy transfer.
Since Cogan described his first case in 1945, about 50 cases have been published in the world literature, A 23 year old patient who suffered from this disease led us to make a detailed study of previous publications. The cochleo-vestibular, the etiological and the ophtalmical aspects of the case were studied, and, also the differential diagnosis and the therapeutical possibilities.
A physical model including a diffusional layer in series with the membrane was developed for studying the possible differences between the pH at the membrane surface and that in the bulk solution. Both the membrane-secreted substances (acids and bases) and buffer constituents in the bulk solutions are assumed to contribute to the surface pH. Equations derived for this situation, together with experimental determinations of the acidic dissociation constant of the secreted material, the total secretion flux, the flux of total secreted acidic species, and the diffusion layer thickness, allow estimates to be made of the pH at the membrane surface. With the rabbit vagina, the membrane surface pH was close to that of the bulk solution in most cases. These results were supported by the fact that the absorption of 1-alkanoic acids in pH 2.2 phosphate buffers was relatively constant over the buffer concentration range of 0.003-0.1 M phosphate.
The induction of cellulase synthesis by lactose was studied in the resting cells of Trichoderma lignorum OM 534. The effect depended on the concentration of lactose, pH, and the age of the mycelium. The induction of the enzyme synthesis by lactose is supressed by glucose and its metabolites. The repression by glucose is partly eliminated by Cyk 3'-5'-AMP, theophylline, and coffeine. The induction of cellulase by lactose is regarded as a derepression of the synthesis of this enzyme as a result of slow assimilation of the disaccharide. The synthesis of cellulase in T. lignorum is presumed to be constitutive.
Bacillus macerans cycloamylose (cyclodextrin) glucanotransferase (EC 2.4.1.19) was purified by the technique of starch adsorption and DEAE-cellulose column chromatography, and then crystallized from an ammonium sulfate solution containing mM calcium chloride. The crystals of the enzyme were rod-shaped and showed a single band by disc-gel electrophorsis. The purified enzyme was dissociated into two subunits by sodium dodecyl sulfate-disc electrophoresis. The subunits had no enzyme activity. Details of each purification step and some properties of the enzyme are described in this paper.
Efficacy and side effects of flurazepam 15 mg, fosazepam 60 mg, and nitrazepam 5 mg were studied in 17 psychogeriatric patients. The drugs were equipotent in maintaining sleep but nitrazepam had more side effects than the other hypnotics, and it induced a rebound insomnia after withdrawal. All hypnotics lost some of their efficacy towards the end of 7 days' administration. Patients with evident cerebrovascular disease were vulnerable to the side effects of the benzodiazepine hypnotics. The side effects did not correlate with the age of a patient. In addition, no correlations were found between the serum levels of fosazepam or its main metabolite and the side effects.
Methylxanthines (MX) inhibit cell division in sea urchin and clam eggs. This inhibitory effect is not mediated via cAMP. MX also inhibit respiration in marine eggs, at concentrations which inhibit cleavage. Studies showed that no changes occurred in ATP and ADP levels in the presence of inhibitory concentrations of MX, indicating an extra-mitochondrial site of action for the drug. Subsequent studies revealed decreased levels of NADP+ and NADPH, when eggs were incubated with inhibitory concentrations of MX, but no change in levels of NAD+ and NADH. MX did not affect the pentose phosphate shunt pathway and did not have any effect on the enzyme NAD+ -kinase. Further studies showed a marked inhibitory effect on the glutathione reductase activity of MX-treated eggs. Reduced glutathione (GSH) could reverse the cleavage inhibitory effect of MX. Moreover, diamide, a thiol-oxidizing agent specific for GSH in living cells, caused inhibition of cell division in sea urchin eggs. Diamide added to eggs containing mitotic apparatus (MA) could prevent cleavage by causing a dissolution of the formed MA. Both MX and diamide inhibit a Ca2+-activated ATPase in whole eggs. The enzyme can be reactivated by sulfhydryl reducing agents added in the assay mixture. In addition, diamide causes an inhibition of microtubule polymerization, reversible with dithioerythritol. All experimental evidence so far suggests that inhibition of mitosis in sea urchin eggs by MX is mediated by perturbations of the in vivo thiol-disulfide status of target systems, with a primary effect on glutathione levels.
Using a single-pass perfusion technique, H2O, Na+, Cl-, HCO3-, and glucose absorption were studied in the jejunum and proximal and distal ileum of rats either uninfected or infected with a tapeworm parasite (Hymenolepis diminuta). The effect of parasitization, region of the intestine, type of buffer, and concentration of glucose in the perfusion fluids on the transport data were analyzed by univariate and multivariate techniques. Proximal-distal flux gradients were observed for water and all the solute species studied, as well as for glucose- and bicarbonate-stimulated salt and water transport; there was a decreasing sensitivity to low pH proceeding distally. The major regional differences occurred between the proximal and distal ileum, with the fluxes in the jejunum being similar to those in the proximal ileum. Na+, H2O, and glucose transport decreased, while Cl- absorption increased, proceeding distally. The parasites diminished the rates of absorption of glucose, salt, and water, and altered the flux gradients, particularly the Na+ and HCO3- transport gradients. The differences in the gradients between control and infected animals were related to differential sensitivity of the different transport systems in the various regions of the gut to parasitism.
A comparative study was performed for actomyosin complexes of the female rabbit myometrium in the state of labour (actomyosin of the control) and secondary uterine inertia (actomyosin of the model). Under the secondary uterine inertia the activity of actomyosin Ca2+- and Mg2+-ATPase decreases. When pH of the medium changes, ATPase of control actomyosin has two peaks of the activity: at rH 6.0 and pH 9.0, that of the model at pH 6.0. Actomyosin of the model and control differs by a degree and rate of superprecipitation, thermal stability and structure. It is supposed that the structural changes in actomyosin under the secondary uterine inertia occur due to accumulation of the metabolism products, the level of which with this pathology is beyond the limits of the adaptation potentialities of the organism.
Virus can be adsorbed from effluents of sewage treatment plants on large-surface membranes. Subsequent elution of virus requires large volumes, which in turn requires reconcentration of virus for assay. However, reconcentration of such viral eluates on small adsorbent surfaces is difficult because certain soluble sewage components are adsorbed along with the virus on the initial virus adsorbent and are removed along with the virus by the eluent. Upon acidification of the initial eluate to reconcentrate the virus on smaller membrane surfaces, flocs are formed that interfere with the reconcentration process. To circumvent this problem, the interfering sewage components can be removed by activated carbon and ion-exchange resins. The virus is then readily reconcentrated on small membranes.
In human diploid fibroblast LEP cells infected with AD169 strain of human cytomegalovirus (CMV) a sharp increase of cytosol thymidine kinase activity was observed. The properties of the cytosol enzymes from infected and non-infected cells were compared. No significant differences between the enzymes from infected and control cells were observed in substrate specificity, pH dependence, thermostability and relative electrophoretic mobility. Human sera containing high titres of CMV complement-fixing antibodies did not neutralize the enzyme from infected cells. It is concluded from these results that the increase of cytosol thymidinekinase activity in CMV-infected cells was due to an enhancement of cellular thymidine kinase.
Mycological analyses were made on specimens obtained from the skin, oral rinse, urine, and feces of three subjects participating in a 56 day Skylab simulation test. Samples were taken over a 175 day period divided into three phases consisting of a prechamber, intrachamber, and postchamber period. A total of 69 species of filamentous fungi and 22 species of yeast and yeast-like fungi were recovered and identified. There was a marked decrease in the isolation incidence of both the filamentous and yeast and yeast-like fungi during the intrachamber period. This, taken with the fact that 71% of the filamentous species and 55% of the yeast and yeast-like species were isolated no more than twice, reflects the transitory nature of the relationship between the human body and most fungi. However, there was a relative increase in the potential pathogens Candida albicans and Candida parapsilosis during the intrachamber period. Over 50% of all fungi recovered were isolated from the nasal and oral cavities. There was no evidence of intercrew transfer of a particular species during the intrachamber period nor was there any evidence of microbial shock during the postchamber period.
Representative studies which elucidate present treatment principles regarding parenteral administration of neuroleptics for acute psychoses with agitation are reviewed. "Rapid tranquillization" with drugs such as haloperidol generally appears preferable, but controlled comparisons with more conservative types of treatment are lacking. It is suggested that parenteral chlorpromazine should be avoided because of its tendency to provoke severe hypotension, whereas loxapine apparently is a valuable drug if strong sedation is required for behavioural control. Possible advantages of ultra-high-dose therapy need to be proved in controlled trials, and the occurrence of toxic side-effects requires further evaluation. From an ethical and psychological point of view, it is recommended that antiparkinsonian medication should be administered simultaneously with neuroleptics which induce a high incidence of acute dystonia. Several types of acute psychosis with agitation which do not require treatment with a neuroleptic as drug treatment of first choice are briefly mentioned.
The use of an iridium microelectrode 0.5 mm in diameter is proposed for measuring the pH gradient in polyacrylamide gels after isoelectric focusing. The electrode exhibits a perfectly linear potential/pH relationship; thus it can be used directly in conjunction with a pH meter using the pH scale for readings. pH equilibrium values are rapidly reached (10-15 s) and pI determinations are obtainable with good accuracy (better than 0.1 pH).
N-Nitrosoephedrine was synthesized at a high yield (greater than 90%). The influence of pH on the reaction process (ephedrine sulfate + nitrous acid in hydrochloric acid) was investigated and the pH-optimum determined. Furthermore the influence of coffee, ascorbic acid, citric acid, cyclamate/saccharin (10:1), smoke condensate of cigarettes, glucose and ethanol on the reaction process was also determined. The tests with animals (rats) showed that N-nitrosoephedrine could be detected in serum after the oral application of ephedrine sulfate and sodium nitrite.
A quantitative method is described for the measurement of intralysosomal pH in living cells. Fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled dextran (FD) is endocytized and accumulates in lysosomes where it remains without apparent degradation. The fluorescence spectrum of this compound changes with pH in the range 4-7 and is not seriously affected by FD concentration, ionic strength, or protein concentration. Living cells on coverslips are mounted in a spectrofluorometer cell and can be perfused with various media. The normal pH inside macrophage lysosomes seems to be 4.7-4.8, although it can drop transiently as low as 4.5. Exposure of the cells to various weak bases and to acidic potassium ionophores causes the pH to increase. The changes in pH are much more rapid than is the intralysosomal accumulation of the weak bases. Inhibitors of glycolysis (2-deoxyglucose) and of oxidative phosphorylation (cyanide or azide) added together, but not separately, cause the intralysosomal pH to increase. These results provide evidence for the existence of an active proton accumulation mechanism in the lysosomal membrane and support the theory of lysosomal accumulation of weak bases by proton trapping.
It is possible to predict plasma concentrations of drugs by measurement in saliva, obviating the need for venipuncture. Using a selection of weakly acidic and basic drugs, we have found this prediction reliable for drugs largely nonionized at normal plasma pH (phenytoin, phenobarbital, antipyrine) but unreliable for ionized drugs (chlorpropramide, tolbutamide, propranolol, meperidine). Deliberate alteration of saliva flow rate and pH using different stimuli have produced twofold changes in saliva drug concentrations. Wide interindividual variability of saliva pH is the likely explanation for the inconstancy of saliva to plasma concentration ratios for ionized drugs.
Highly purified NADH and NADPH:FMN oxidoreductases from Beneckea harveyi have been characterized with regard to kinetic parameters, association with luciferase, activity with artificial electron acceptors, and the effects of inhibitors. The NADH:FMN oxidoreductase exhibits single displacement kinetics while the NADPH:FMN oxidoreductase exhibits double displacement or ping-pong kinetics. This is consistent with the formation of a reduced enzyme as an intermediate in the reaction of catalyzed by the NADPH:FMN oxidoreductase. Coupling of either of the oxidoreductases to the luciferase reaction decreases the apparent Kms for NADH, NADPH, and FMN, supporting the suggestion of a complex between the oxidoreductases and luciferase. The soluble oxidoreductases are more efficient in producing light with luciferase than is a NADH dehydrogenase preparation obtained from the membranes of these bacteria. The soluble enzymes use either FMN or FAD as substrates for the oxidation of reduced pyridine nucleotides while the membrane NADH dehydrogenase is much more active with artificial electron acceptors such as ferricyanide and methylene blue. FMN and FAD are very poor acceptors. The evidence indicates that neither of the soluble oxidoreductases is derived from the membranes. Both enzymes are constitutive and do not depend on the synthesis of luciferase.
The secretion of pituitary and peripheral hormones is regulated by a chain of reactions in the central nervous system. According to current knowledge this chain consists of the following links: external and internal stimuli leads to mesencephalon leads to limbic system leads to monoaminergic neurones leads to hypothalamic nuclei leads to liberines (releasing hormones) and inhibines (inhibiting horomones) leads to portal system leads to pituitary leads to peripheral endocrine gland. Long-loop and short-loop feedbacks regulate the activity of this relay system. The monoaminergic neurones secrete neurotransmitters, of which three are presently known: norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. Most likely there also exists a cholinergic neurotransmitter. The secretion of neurotransmitters can be increased or reduced by specific drugs. On this basis, certain neuroendocrinopathies, such as deprivation dwarfism, hypothalamic acromegaly, and anorexia nervosa, may be treated speciafically. The pituitary secretion of growth hormone (GH) takes place mainly at night during deep sleep (slow-wave-sleep). This secretory pattern develops during the first year of life. It reaches its peak during puberty. At that time GH-spikes also occur during daytime. During adulthood GH secretion slowly diminishes again and at senescence it corresponds to early childhood.
Reduction of seven azo dyes (amaranth, Ponceau SX, Allura Red, Sunset Yellow, tartrazine, Orange II, and methyl orange) was carried out by cell suspensions of predominant intestinal anaerobes. It was optimal at pH 7.4 in 0.4 M phosphate buffer and inhibited by glucose. Flavin mononucleotide caused a marked enhancement of azo reduction by Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron. Other electron carriers, e.g., methyl viologen, benzyl viologen, phenosafranin, neutral red, crystal violet, flavin adenine dinucleotide, menadione, and Janus Green B can replace flavin mononucleotide. These data suggest that an extracellular shuttle is required for azo reduction.
This paper discusses the problem if the plasma protein binding of benzodiazepine derivatives can influence distribution and pharmacological activity of the drugs. The distribution of the benzodiazepines in the organism is influenced not only by the plasma protein binding of the drugs, but also by several other factors, especially since the drugs are mostly lipophilic. Thus, an effect of the plasma protein binding on the distribution can only be expected if the benzodiazepine derivative is highly bound to the plasma proteins. Thus results have been shown only for diazepam and chlordiazepoxid, which indicate an effect of the plasma protein binding on distribution and pharmacological activity, for example the existence of a direct correlation between unwanted CNS depressions and low plasma albumin concentrations and a direct correlation between the plasma protein binding and the biological half-life. There are no observations available on a displacement of other drugs from their binding to plasma proteins by benzodiazepines. The observed displacement of thyroid hormones from their binding to plasma proteins seems to have only a significance for thyroid function tests in vitro. It was shown that benzodiazepines decrease the amount of L-tryptophan bound to serum albumin in vitro and in vivo and increased therewith the L-tryptophan concentration in the brain. At present it can not be confirmed if these observations bear any significance on the pharmacological activity of the drugs. But these experiments demonstrate the significance of the use of albumin as a model for the interaction of drugs with tissue or receptorproteins.
Patients with essential hypertension can be subdivided into groups with low (19%), normal (59%) or high (23%) renin sodium index. The proportion with low renin hypertension increases with age. Patients with high renin fall in two categories: younger patients with fairly mild hypertension and older patients with more severe hypertension and signs of renal disease. The antihypertensive efficacy of betablocker monotherapy is best in high renin forms, good but less consistent in normal renin patients and uniformly bad in low renin hypertensives. In relation to age, betablockers normalized blood pressure (less than or equal to 95 mm Hg diastolic) in three-quarters of the younger-than-40-year-olds, in about half of those 40-60 years of age but in only 20% of those over 60 years. On this basis, it is postulated that the older patients with a low renin exhibit a relatively hypoadrenergic state whereas those with a normal or high renin--for a given age and elevated pressure--have a relatively increased adrenergic nervous activity. Because the betablockers have a potent suppressive action on the renin-angiotensin system--and, as a consequence, on angiotensin vasoconstriction, aldosterone volume expansion and central stimulatory feedback mechanisms--their antihypertensive mode of action may be linked to an important extent, although not exclusively, to renin suppression.
Two ad hoc surveys on drugs prescribed in Reykjavik during November 1972 and November 1974 were made. After the first survey a publicity campaign was launched and doctors were encouraged to change their prescribing habits; only minor changes in docotors' prescribing habits were noticed, although it is realised that this type of programme will require a longer period to prove its effectiveness. The surveys showed that benzodiazepines are more widely prescribed than chlorodiazepoxide. Doctors have been warned of the probable addictive effect of benzodiazepines (Grimsson et al., 1974). Drug addicts who used to go from one surgery to another have now been identified and they can only receive drugs on prescription from their own family doctor or his deputy.
This survey concerns the essential findings in two clinical trials. The first study involved almost complete substitution of sucrose (S) by fructose (F) or xylitol (X). After 2 years the mean DMFS-increment was 7.2 in the S-group, 3.8 in the F-group, and 0.0 in the X-group. The second study comprised partial substitution, the effects of a S- or X-containing chewing gum being compared during 1 year. The subjects consumed 4.0 chewing gums per day in the S-group and correspondingly 4.5 in the X-group. In the S-group the caries incidence assessed independently by clinical and radiographical means was significantly higher than in the X-group. It is concluded that the metabolic studies indicate the relative safety of perorally administered xylitol at the present dosage levels. In view on the findings in the chewing gum study it is suggested that the non- and anti-cariogenic properties of xylitol principally depend on its lack of suitability for microbial metabolism and the physico-chemical effects in plaque and saliva brought about through low and repeated dosage.
A spontaneous rhythmic motility of the isolated intestine in snail, Chryptomphalus hortensis, has been registered at 30 degrees C with the aid of an electronic transductor and an appropriate amplification. These slow regular movements are affected by ionic composition changes in the suspension medium. Na+, K+ and Ca++ ions prove to be important in this motility, and the addition of Ba++ markedly stimulates it. ACh produces hypermotility from 1.8 X 10(-11) g/ml. Its effect decreases in the presence of atropine and increases in that of pyridostigmine. The intestine is sensitive to 5-HT from 10(-10) g/ml, which stimulates its activity. The effect of histamine is weak. Low concentrations of adrenaline tend to increase the amplitude, whereas concentrations from 10(-5) g/ml onward produce a cease of motility in relaxation.
The effects of penbutolol (Hoe 893 d), a new non-selective beta-receptor blocking agent, were studied in 5 patients with moderate hypertension. Initially, it was shown that 2-4 mg given orally once or twice daily tended to lower blood pressure and pulse rate, both at rest and following submaximal work. In prolonged trials (3-8 months) 4-60 mg/day were required to produce an acceptable antihypertensive effect. Penbutolol had no effect on the normal increase in plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline on standing, nor did it alter basal urinary catecholamine excretion. Submaximal work caused no significant change in plasma catecholamines before treatment, but there was a marked rise both in plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline during treatment with penbutolol. In short term studies there was a fall in plasma renin by 4 hours after oral administration of penbutolol 2-4 mg, which persisted for 24 hours. Prolonged treatment with penbutolol 20-30 mg twice daily inhibited renin production under basal conditions and following submaximal work, as well as lowered basal urinary aldosterone excretion. In one patient slight asthmatic symptoms appeared after treatment for 3 months with penbutolol. In other respects penbutolol was well tolerated.
We isolated gamma-glutamyltransferase [(gamma-glutamyl)-peptide:amino acid gamma-glutamyltransferase, EC 2.3.2.2] from human liver and compared some of its properties with the same enzyme prepared from human kidney. The enzymes from these two sources are very similar with respect to initial velocity kinetic constants, pH optima of the transpeptidation and autotransfer reactions, heat stability, competitive inhibition by glutathione of the colorimetric assay in which gamma-glutamyl-4-nitroanilide is substrate, stability of catalytic activity to trypsinization, and relative rates of transfer of the gamma-glutamyl moiety from gamma-glutamyl-4-nitroanilide and L-[glycine-2-3/]glutathione to some amino acids and small peptides. The kidney enzyme is inhibited more by the gamma-glutamyl acceptor substrate, glycylglycine, as reflected in a sevenfold lower value for the inhibition constant KiA. Major differences were observed in the lectin-binding properties of liver gamma-glutamyltransferase compared to the kidney enzyme. Lectin-binding property differences are retained for the trypsinized form of the liver and kidney enzymes, although the degree of precipitation was less for certain lectins as compared to the untreated enzyme. Lectin-binding properties were reversed by carbohydrates specific for each lectin. We adapted the histochemical staining technique of Rutenberg et al. [J. Histochem. Cytochem. 17, 517 (1969)] to the detection of gamma-glutamyltransferase activity in acrylamide gels; diffusion artifacts are minimized and the color produced is stable for several days. Untreated and trypsinized forms of the liver enzyme both migrated faster in acrylamide gels (as single bands) than did the corresponding forms of the kidney enzyme.
1. Metronidazole (Flagyl) is reduced exponentially by the contents of the rat caecum in the absence of oxygen. The rate of removal is highest at pH 7 and 37 degrees. 2. Reduction of the drug is inhibited by boiling of the caecal contents, CHCl3, Cu2+, Ag+, azodicarboxylic acid bis-dimethylamide, p-chloromercuric benzoate, N-ethylmaleimide and 4,4,4-trifluoro-1,2-thienyl-1,3-butanedione. Nitrate, ethanol (3%), CO, phenol and amytal did not affect the rate of reduction. 3. It is concluded that iron-sulphur systems are involved in degradation of the drug.
Here are the results of bilateral biopsies on 52 cases of unilateral cryptorchidia. In 12 patients the scrotal testicle showed equal lesions or more important lesions in the undescended testicle. It points out the importance of systematizing the histological testicular study, keeping in mind: (1) spermatogenic index; (2) variation in spermatogonias; (3) tubular diameter, and (4) interstitial tissue. Stress is made on the innocuousness of the bilateral testicular biopsy and its indispensability since it is the only way to recognize a dysgenetic cryptorchidia and evaluate the future fertility of the patient.
In two H-2b anti-H-2d but not in H-2b anti-H2k donor-recipient combinations, graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR) mortality was found to vary as a function of the host's genetic background; the same non-major histocompatibility complex genes and/or antigens which influence GVHR mortality do not influence the intensity of GVHR splenomegaly or the time of skin rejection. In contrast, the severity of GVHR mortality correlates with the intensity of stimulation in mixed lymphocyte culture. The roles of minor histocompatibility (H) antigens and Mls product are discussed.
The surface pH of human proximal jejunum was measured in biopsy samples and found to be more acid than the phosphate buffer in which they were incubated. The in vitro jejunal surface pH was 5.93 +/- 0.05 in control subjects and 6.19 +/- 0.09 in treated coeliac patients. A group of untreated coeliac patients with a surface pH of 6.56 +/- 0.14 had a significantly less acid surface pH compared to controls, as did a group of Crohn's patients with a surface pH of 6.21 +/- 0.04. These two groups with a significantly raised surface pH were subdivisible into 'high' and 'low'groups. Surface pH was found to remain low in the treated coeliac and control groups but became more acid over the incubation period reaching almost normal values in the Crohn's group and the untreated coelic initial surface pH. The raised surface pH in untreated coeliac disease and Crohn's disease would alter the amount of a weak acid available for non-ionic diffusion. Therefore the present results may help to explain the folate malabsorption known to occur in untreated coeliac disease and the frequently seen low serum folate levels in Crohn's disease.
Because of the high level of GGT activity in semen, the suggestion was made that this enzyme could serve as a test in forensic medical practice; especially in rape cases. Comparisons of GGT and ACP tests revealed, however, that GGT is not sensitive enough and did not show acceptable specificity. One can conclude that GGT cannot be recommended either as a confirmatory test or as a substitute for ACP determinations in rape cases.
The betamimetica Dilatol and Partusisten have a glycogenolytic and lipolytic effect on the metabolism. In 21 pregnant women significantly higher concentrations were measured in 9 free amino-acids during intravenous tocolysis with Dilatol. After Partusisten infusion 8 amino-acids were increased. After changing to oral medication of the tocolytica the concentration returned to a normal level again. The clinical significance of these findings is being discussed.
Under conditions which favor the duplex structure of DNA, mung bean nuclease catalyzes a limited number of double-strand cleavages (probably less than 50) in the interior of native T7 DNA. However, under conditions which are not as favorable to a tight helical structure, the large duplex polymers previously produced are completely degraded from their termini with a continuous accumulation of mono-, di-, and trinucleotides. The terminally directed activity is an intrinsic property of the enzyme molecule because (1) it is inactivated and reactivated in parallel with the single-strand activity and (2) the two activities coelectrophorese on analytical gels. Kinetic measurements indicate that the apparent Km for the terminally directed hydrolysis of native DNA is relatively high. The pH optimum for both the hydrolysis of denatured DNA and the terminally directed hydrolysis of native DNA becomes more acidic with increasing salt concentration. The relative preference for single-stranded structures increases as the pH becomes more basic.
Ultracentrifugation was used for the partial isolation of polysorbate 80 micelles in aqueous media to determine the apparent partition coefficients of various drug species between water and the micellar pseudophase. The ratio of solute concentration in the micelles to that in water was measured for procaine, salicylic acid, sulfapyridine, sulfisoxazole, and sodium 2-naphthalensulfonate over ranges of pH, surfactant concentration, drug concentration, and micelle sedimentation. Apparent partition coefficients for the systems investigated were independent of both drug concentration and surfactant concentration, indicating that the mode(s) of surfactant-drug interaction are essentially invariant over the ranges of systematic variables studied. The method provides a relatively simple and rapid means of quantitatively evaluating drug-surfactant interactions above the CMC, when surfactant and solute can be assayed in mixtures without interference.
Lorazepam has been studied as preanaesthetic medication given by mouth, i.m. and i.v. Sediation and side-effects and the incidence of anterograde amnesia in patients having a standard operation under methohexitone-nitrous oxide-oxygen anaesthesia were assessed. In a preliminary study of three i.m. (2-, 4- and 8-mg) and six oral (1-,2-,2.5-,4-,5- and 8-mg) doses, the optimum dose was found to be 4 mg for patients with an average weight of 60 kg. This dose was studied in detail when given by all three routes and compared with the commercially available 2.5- and 5-mg tablets. Even when given i.v., there was a delay of 30-40 min in the onset of maximum sedative effect and drowsiness persisted for at least 4 h. Although the onset of action by i.m. injection was slightly faster than when the drug was given by mouth this advantage was more than offset by the high frequencies of pain at the site of injection and restlessness which persisted for 20-40 min. Oral lorazepam in doses of 2.5-5.0 mg was a reliable, effective sedative which could be recommended for routine preanaesthetic medication, provided rapid recovery was not essential. Its soporific effect was accompanied by an appreciable incidence of anterograde amnesia.
A model membrane was developed in which interfacial layers of rhodopsin were reoriented onto one side of a thin Teflon film separating two aqueous compartments. Flashes evoked fast photoelectric signals (1 ms) that originated from capacitative charge displacements of oriented rhodopsin upon bleaching. The photoelectric responses of rhodopsin in the model membrane are compared with the early receptor potential of photoreceptor cells; it is concluded that the signals in both systems originate from the same mechanism.
This study compared benorylate suspension and placebo in a double-blind randomised cross-over design to investigate their analgesic effect in osteoarthritis of the hip and the knee. Benorylate and placebo were each given for 7 days. Assessment of efficacy and tolerance was carried out on the 7th day of each period. The results were subjected to sequential analysis and the analgesic effect of benorylate suspension was significantly demonstrated after 8 case reports. Mild digestive side effects appeared in 30% of patients. In addition, benorylate suspension was well tolerated in an open trial carried on for 30 to 90 days in 7 patients.
A method was established to estimate the pH change of several buffers solutions on freezing by using a combination of pH indicators. Among more than 30 buffers solutions examined, almost half exhibited a pH change in the temperature range between freezing point and 220 degrees K; the results were tabulated. Glycerol was found to suppress the pH changes because of its "salt buffer" effect.
The addition of Sr2+ or Ba2+ to the solution bathing the frog neuromuscular junction leads to an increased release of transmitter by each nerve impulse during and following repetitive stimulation. The mechanisms by which Sr2+ and Ba2+ increase release are not the same. Each ion appears to act selectively on a different process involved in transmitter release.
Interest in the nutritional and physiological implications of the high dietary intakes of fructose from sucrose and isomerized corn sweeteners has directed attention to the specific metabolic properties of this monosaccharide. Epithelial cells isolated from the small  intestine of Wistar rats fed a stock diet showed 24% to 57% higher transport of 1 mM leucine, isoleucine, valine, alanine, phenylalanine tryptophan and histidine in the presence of 10 mM fructose than in its absence. In contrast, 10mM glucose generally inhibited the transport of these amino acids and 10mM sorbose had no effect on leucine transport. Fructose failed to consistently stimulate the transport of basic amino acids and generally inhibited the transport of glucose and galactose, indicating that the stimulation was relatively specific for neutral amino acids. Cells preloaded with fructose optimally stimulated leucine transport in the absence of extracellular fructose. Ouabain and dinitrophenol inhibited the stimulation of leucine transport by intracellular fructose after 2 minutes. A stimulation mediated by an exchange transport mechanism was rejected on  the basis of the failure of 1 mM neutral amino acids either  to inhibit the transport of 10 mM fructose or to accelerate the movement of fructose out of fructose-loaded cells. Although the mechanism remains unknown, these results demonstrate a specific effect of fructose at the intestinal level that produces a stimulation of neutral amino acid transport.
Factors affecting the viability and function of stored platelet concentrates have been investigated in a blood component programme. It was found that platelets could be maintained for up to 72 h without bacterial contamination under the following conditions: (1) surgical skin preparation at venipuncture site; (2) blood collection in CPD or ACD anticoagulant in a closed bag system; (3) centrifugation of PRP at 3000 g for 20 min; (4) storage in Fenwal PL-146, Cutter CL-2383, or McGaw plastic bags; (5) resuspension of the platelet pellet in 70 ml residual plasma; (6) storage at 22+/-2 degrees C; and (7) constant gentle mixing throughout storage. Platelet viability as determined by recovery and survival is largely maintained, as is platelet function measured by template bleeding time. Both viability and function of concentrated platelets stored at 4 degrees C are severely compromised.
The uricotelic turtle Pseudemys scripta acidifies the urine to a pH as low as 4 in the urinary bladder. Data in this report show that the mechanism of acidification in this bladder is the transport of bicarbonate ion from lumen to serosa, and that the temperature to which the turtles are adapted prior to the in vitro experiment largely determines the direction of the transmural carbon dioxide gradient observed. This temperature effect also serves to reconcile apparently disparate data that were previously reported. A new technique for the direct determination of the partial pressure of carbon dioxide was employed.
Metabolism of tritium-labeled testosterone, delta4-androstane-3, 17-dion, dihydrotestosterone. 5alpha-androstane-3alpha, 17beta-diod and 5alpha-androstane-3beta, 17beta-dion by the isolated hypophyses and epiphyses of male and female 30-day rats was studied. The glands were incubated in Eagle's medium containing the mentioned androgens with the concentration of 1-2.10(-8) M for 90 min at 37 degrees C. As revealed, restoration of testosterone and delta4 androstane-3, 17-dion by 5alpha-reductase occurred in  the epiphyses and hypophyses; under conditions of incubation androgen hydroxylation was realized only in the 3alpha- and 17beta-positions. Organ and sexual specificity of the androgen metabolism in the hypophyses and the epiphyses was quantitative in character: the metabolism level of all the androgens was greater in female rats than in the male both in the hypophysis and in the epiphyses; the activity of 5-reductase was lower in the epiphyses of animals of the both sexes than in the hypophyses. It appeared that in the process of biotransformation androgens in the organs under study served as precursors of the polar unidentified metabolites poorly retained by the tissues and eliminated from the organs into the incubation medium during the incubation.
The activity of diamfenetide (N,N'-[oxybis(2,1-ethan diyloxy-4,1-phenylene)] bis acetamide) was studied in lambs experimentally inoculated with Fasciola hepatica. The drug was given orally at a dose level of 100 mg/kg either 1,3,5,7, or 9 weeks postinoculation. It was 100% effective 1, 3, and 5 weeks postinoculation, 73% effective 7 weeks postinoculation, and 57% effective 9 weeks postinoculation. Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity remained normal in all lambs for 5 weeks after infection; it then began to increase in infected, untreated lambs at 6 weeks, and had increased 5- to 6-fold 9 weeks postinoculation in infected lambs. This enzyme activity was the most sensitive hematologic parameter used in this test to detect hepatobiliary damage by the parasite. The drug was well tolerated at the dose level used.
The anesthesiologist uses a wide spectrum of drugs, including inhalational general anesthetics, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, narcotics analgesics and their antagonists, and neuromuscular blocking drugs. All of these drugs in sufficient dose impair the ventilatory response to chemical stimuli, and may cause inadequate gas exchange. The effect of depression of ventilatory control depends on the magnitude of depression and the coexistence of functional abnormalities in the respiratory system. The functional abnormalities are the result of preexistent pulmonary disease or other disease processes that impair respiratory function, the anticipated effects of major surgery (e.g., pulmonary resection), and the complications of anesthesia and surgery. From a functional viewpoint, the mechanisms of the effects of these disease processes on ventilatory control are: (1) interference with the neurophysiological control of automatic ventilation; (2) impairment of peripheral or central chemoreceptor function; (3) impairment of respiratory muscle function; (4) increase in the mechanical load to breathing as a result of increased resistance or decreased compliance of the respiratory system; and (5) increase in the ventilatory requirements as a result of ventilation/blood flow maldistribution, metabolic acidosis, or increased metabolic rate. As a result of current trends in the use of multiple drugs and controlled ventilation during anesthesia, the patient is at greatest risk during the early postoperative period in the recovery room. In addition to the functional abnormalities described above, the probability of impaired gas exchange and respiratory failure is increased as a result of impaired metabolism and elimination of drugs as a result of hepatic and renal insufficiency, and acute changes in acidbase status, which alter the ionization and distribution of drugs.
Dependence of the HCO--3-stimulated ATPase activity from nuclei and mitochondria of rat ovary ascites tumor cells on pH and concentration of bicarbonate ions was studied. PCMB, NaN3, NaCNS, NaClO4 and NaF inhibited the HCO--3-stimulated ATPase activity. The properties of HCO--3-sensitive ATPase from rat ovary ascites tumor cells were similar to that of HCO--3-ATPases from other tissues.
Propranolol (1-isopropylamino-3-(1-naphtoloxy)-propan-2-ol) a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent was found to cause changes of transmembraneous pH in liposomes prepared from Soy-lecithin and cardiolipin. When the external pH was neutral and the internum of the liposomes acidic, the drug decreased the pH gradient. When the externum was acidic and the internum neutral, the gradient was increased by the drug. The effect of butacaine was similar to that of propranolol, while procaine, timolol and practolol were ineffective. It is suggested that the charged form of propranolol is bound to the membrane and dislocates protons from binding sites in the membrane and that the uncharged form of propranolol penetrates the membrane. After penetration it could associate with protons in the intraliposomal compartment and hence increase the pH of the interior. Depending on the direction of the pre-existing proton gradient propranolol would thus be able to increase or decrease the pH difference across the liposomal membrane.
Patients having hyperkalemia often are given bicarbonate to raise blood pH and shift extracellular potassium into cells. Blood pH in many hyperkalemic patients, however, is compensated. To determine whether bicarbonate, independent of its pH action, affects plasma potassium, 14 hyperkalemic patients were treated with bicarbonate in 5% dextrose. In five patients (changed pH group), blood pH rose at least 0.08, while in nine (constant pH group), it changed less than 0.04. In the first group, pH rose 0.12, bicarbonate rose 5.9 mEq/liter, and plasma potassium fell 1.6 mEq/liter, and plasma potassium fell 1.4 mEq/liter. The correlation between changes in plasma potassium and bicarbonate was identical in the two groups and independent of urinary potassium excretion. Four additional patients, who were treated with 5% dextrose alone, did not significantly lower their plasma potassium, although subsequent treatment with bicarbonate in 5% dextrose lowered their plasma potassium. Thus, bicarbonate lowers plasma potassium, independent of its effect on blood pH, and despite a risk of volume overload, should be used to treat hyperkalemia in compensated acid-base disorders, even in the presence of renal failure, provided the plasma bicarbonate concentration is decreased.
Continuous exposure of human skin to water in small plastic cups for periods of 72 and 144 hr produced a mild, transient dermatitis in half the sites tested. The degree of dermatitis was only slightly greater at 144 than at 72 hr, and was unrelated to the pH of the water samples. Comparison of soap-pretreated to non-pretreated skin areas showed a significant tendency for the more severe dermatitis to be present on the non-pretreated skin areas at higher pH's. There was virtually no coating of hairs with waxy yellowish material (clumps of bacteria), and no lesion was produced that resembled warm-water-immersion injuries.
In rabbits inoculated into the right scarified cornea with the Kupka strain of human Herpesvirus type 1 (HHV 1), healing of the keratitis occurred between days 8--12 post infection (p.i.). Viral particles were seen in nuclei and cytoplasm of corneal epithelium cells and in a few fibrocytes of corneal stroma. By immunofluorescence and electron microscopy, the virus was demonstrated in single neurons and satellite cells of the homolateral Gasserian ganglion since 24 hr p.i. From 20 hr to 8 days p.i., HHV 1 was found in ganglia of 7 out of 15 rabbits, while the explantation was positive in 10 out of 12 animals. In the course of latency, single HHV antigen-containing cells were seen in ganglia of 3 out of 7 rabbits and virus isolation attempts before explantation always were negative. Viral antigen was found in single ganglion cells only in 20% of rabbits with healed corneal lesions while the explanation of the ganglion tissue yielded HHV at an unchanged high frequency (92% of animals).
We measured transthoracic electrical impedance in 17 anesthetized and mechanically ventilated dogs with a four-electrode system. A current (5 KHZ, 50 mu A) is injected and detected at axillary levels. Transthoracic impedance was 67 +/- 14 ohms (S.D.) with insignificant shifts in control animals. Pulmonary edemas were induced by saline and dextrose overloads with large but opposite variations in impedance. Fifty to hundred per cent increases in total lung water content (determined at autopsy) were induced by intravenous injection of alloxan or instillation of endotracheal saline. Significant but small decreases in impedance followed. Validity of experimental pulmonary edemas with or without blood resistivity and pulmonary blood volume changes is discussed.
A series of 1-(substituted phenoxy)-3-(tert-butylamino)-2-propanols in which the ring substituents were 3,4-dihydroxy (6f), 3- and 4-hydroxy (6g and 6h, respectively), 3-hydroxy-4-methylsulfonamido (6i), its 3,4-transposed isomer (6j), and 4-methylsulfonylmethyl (6k) was prepared and examined for beta-adrenergic agonist and/or antagonist properties. Two of these compounds, 6f and 6j, were potent beta-adrenoreceptor agonists in in vitro tests that measure a compound's ability to relax guinea pig tracheal smooth muscle and to increase the rate of contraction of guinea pig right atria. Several compounds had a dose-dependent effect. Although they produced potent beta-adrenergic agonist activity at low concentrations, 6g, 6h, and 6j antagonized the effects of a standard beta-adrenoreceptor agonist at higher concentrations. The methylsulfonylmethyl derivative 6k produced beta-adrenergic blocking effects as demonstrated by attenuation of isoproterenol-induced increases in the rate of contraction of an isolated rabbit heart preparation. On the basis of these pharmacological results, coupled with NMR spectral data, it appears that the previous suggestion that aryloxypropanolamines interact with beta-adrenocreceptors as a consequence of their ability to assume an orientation in which the benzene ring the ethanolamine moieties can be superimposed on those of corresponding adrenergic phenylethanolamines is invalid. An alternative "bicyclic" rigid conformation involving two intramolecular hydrogen bonds in the protonated form of the aryloxypropanolamines is suggested to account for the similar beta-adrenoreceptor activity of these compounds and related phenylethanolamines.
Dibenzepin hydrochloride (10(-3) M) decreases the oxygen uptake of whole brain homogenates and uncouples brain mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. At the same concentration this drug inhibits oxygen uptake of rat brain slices when calcium is absent in the incubation or then contains an excess of potassium.
A phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) study of adenine, uracil, and thymine mononucleotides, their cyclic analogues, and the corresponding dinucleotides is reported. From the pH dependence of phosphate chemical shifts, pKa values of 6.25-6.30 are found for all 5'-mononucleotides secondary phosphate ionization, independently from the nature of the base and the presence of a hydroxyl group at the 2' position. Conversely, substitution of a hydrogen atom for a 2'-OH lowers the pKa of 3'-monoribonucleotides from 6.25 down to 5.71-5.85. This indication of a strong influence of the 2'-hydroxyl group on the 3'-phosphate is confirmed by the existence of a 0.4 to 0.5 ppm downfield shift induced by the 2'-OH on the phosphate resonance of 3'-monoribonucleotides, and 3',5'-cyclic nucleotides and dinucleotides with respect to the deoxyribosyl analogues. Phosphate chemical shifts and titration curves are affected by the ionization and the type of the base. Typically, deviations from the theoretical Henderson-Hasselbalch plots are observed upon base titration. In addition, purine displays a more deshielding influence than pyrimidine on the phosphate groups of most of the mononucleotides (0.10 to 0.25 ppm downfield shift) with a reverse situation for dinucleotides. These effects together with the importance of stereochemical arrangement (furanose ring pucker, furanose-phosphate backbone conformation, O-P-O bond angle) on the phosphate chemical shifts are discussed.
A method previously established in the experimental animal for predicting the acute response to either metabolic stress (bicarbonate administration) or respiratory stress(manipulation of oxygenator gas during cardiopulmonary bypass) has been extended to man. The method is based on a single nomogram. The accuracy of the nomogram is demonstrated using data from 13 patients on cardiopulmonary bypass. Similar agreement obtains between the nomogram and data reported by others. The nomogram can be used to estimate the therapeutically required dose of bicarbonate.
The simpler lipid-containing viruses (influenza, Semliki Forest, PM2) may have a phospholipid bilayer sandwiched between an outer shell of protein and an internal nucleocapsid possessing helical or icosahedral symmetry. Extensive physical and chemical studies have enabled us to form a more detailed picture of the structure of bacteriophage PM2 and controlled stepwise degradation of the virion has helped us to localize the four viral proteins. The surface protein (II) of PM2 is basic and interacts with the acidic phosphatidylglycerol of the bilayer to stabilize the membrane. The nucleocapsid protein (III) has proteolipid characteristics and may interact with the phospholipids in a hydrophobic fashion. The spikes are formed from protein I and the fourth protein (IV) is closely associated with the DNA. It is possible to reassemble the virus by reversing the degradation steps. Assembly has been especially useful in revealing the processes whereby the proteins and lipids interact to form the bilayer. Furthermore, results of in vivo studies of phospholipid synthesis and both in vivo and in vitro studies of viral protein synthesis have enabled us to form a reasonably complete picture of the biosynthesis of PM2.
In spite of the large number of preparations, medical therapy of peptic ulcer disease has long been unsatisfactory. Antacids, anticholinergics and diet neither accelerate healing of ulcers nor prevent recurrences. Carbenoxolone affects only gastric ulcers, while some medications exhibit substantial side effects. Cimetidine, a representative of the new generation of H2-receptor blockers which are potent inhibitors of gastric secretion, significantly enhances healing of duodenal ulcers. In addition, favorable effects on gastric ulcers, as well as on bleeding erosions and ulcers in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, have been reported. Thus far no severe adverse reactions with cimetidine have been observed, but data on effects of long term use are lacking. Synthetic prostaglandins are not yet sufficiently evaluated for clinical use.
Tests conducted on rabbits in a state of acute ethanol poisoning (2.5 g/kg per os) of a medium degree demonstrated that caffein (10 mg/kg) and bemegride (5 mg/kg) introduced one time intravenously at the height of alcoholic intoxication raise the activity of aerobic oxidative processes, but fail to eliminate metabolic acidosis and do not accelerate the excretion of ethanol. Unlike caffein, bemegride shows a tendency toward respiratory compensation of metabolic acidosis and lowers the activity of the alcohol-dehydrogenase.
This article concerns the electromyographical study of a synthetic curare derived from Azobis Arylimidazo (1-2a) Pyridinium (AH/8165) with a simultaneous recording of the spontaneous diaphragmatic activity and "testing" of the neuro-muscular transmission at the level of a peripheral muscle. This study shows that AH/8165 is a powerful non-depolirizing curarimimetic drug that quickly induces a neuro-muscular block at the level of the diaphragm and the peripheric muscles that can be reversed by anticholinesterasic drugs. Its reaction time is short (about 1 mn). There are importante individual variations in the duration of the neuromuscular blockage. Towards the end of the experience, tetanizing stimulations reveal a muscular fatigability in all the cases. No ill side-effects could be observed upon the cardiovascular system or any side-effects ascribable to a histaminergic mechanism.
A continuous-monitoring method for measuring acid phosphatase activity with alpha-naphthyl phosphate as the substrate was critically evaluated and modified. Using partially purified prostatic acid phosphatase, we show that certain conditions for the assay must be satisfied to ensure linearity. These conditions include maintaining the pH between 5.6 and 5.9 and the addition of detergent to sustain linearity. The results obtained with alpha-naphthyl phosphate have been compared with those obtained by using p-nitrophenyl phosphate as substrate. When used with an automatic rate analyzer, the modified method is as sensitive but more reproducible.
Non-physician primary care providers (physicians' assistants) have existed in under-developed or emerging nations, in various forms, for many years. It is only recently, however, that this concept has been introduced into countries with more advanced economic and medical care systems. An active and rapidly developing physician's assistant movement has been organized in the United States since the early 1960s; physician's assistants and nurse practitioners may now be found in the almost every one of the 50 United States. Recently, this kind of concept has been suggested as a possibility for improving the Australian medical care system. This article explores the history and present status of the physician's assistant/nurse practitioner movement in the American medical care scene.
The historical, clinical, ecological, and epidemiological features of Rocky Mountain spotted fever and Colorado tick fever, the two important tick-borne diseases in the United States, are reviewed. Rocky Mountain spotted fever, once considered a disease of the past, has again become a measurable public health problem. Its nationwide incidence has steadily increased since 1960 and has reached record proportions in 1976. The various factors responsible for this trend as well as for the mortality rates, which in spite of availability of effective antibiotics ranges from 5 to 10%, are discussed. Education of the public about ticks and their potential role as vectors of Rickettsia rickettsii and/or Colorado tick fever virus, and about the clinical manifestations of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, is considered the best means for preventing high incidence and mortality from these diseases.
An early upper gastrointestinal series may be carried out on a routine basis after recovery of the postoperative ileus and makes it possible to confirm the good quality of the anastomoses or, by contrast, reveal a benign fistula. Under some circumstances, it may be carried out very early following the development of postoperative complications: pain, fever, respiratory, circulatory and renal insufficiency or in the presence of abnormal discharge from the drains. It then shows whether this complication is due to an oesophagomediastinal or pleural fistula.
Glutamine-dependent CPSase, ATCase, and DHOase from Drosophila, the first three enzymes in pyrimidine biosynthesis, show coordinate variation in activity throughout development. The three activities were highest in first instar larvae and decreased as development proceeded. The three activities cosediment in sucrose gradients as a single peak with a relative sedimentation coefficient of approximately 30S. CPSase, ATCase, and DHOase copurify during (NH4)2SO4 fractionation and during DEAE-cellulose and hydroxylapatite chromatography.
The technique of sonication was applied in studying adenylyl cyclase activity of cultured fibroblasts. Exposure of BHK 21 c/13 to brief periods of low power sonication gives cell preparations with greater basal, fluoride and hormone sensitive adenylyl cyclase activites than those of broken cell preparations of homogenized cells. The sonicated cells provide a convenient method to study adenylyl cyclase since they are added directly to the adenylyl cyclase reaction vessels without further processing. Maximal epinephrine stimulated activity in sonicated cells is nearly equivalent to that activated by sodium fluoride, but the apparent affinity of the enzyme system is similar to that of broken cell preparations. Furthermore, broken cell preparations of sonicated cells possess greater adenylyl cyclase activity than broken cell preparations of unsonicated cells. This procedure may provide a useful tool for the analysis of the hormonal regulation of adenylyl cyclase activity of isolated cells.
An inventory was made of the various substances utilized as minor tranquillizers in man. Throughout the various methods of study of these drugs in animals the main pharmacological properties of tranquillizing drugs were considered. Attention is drawn on the various secondary or adverse effects of minor tranquillizers.
A clottable protein, named coagulogen, was highly purified from the amoebocyte lysate of Japanese horseshoe crab (Tachypleus tridentatus) by a method similar to that used for the lysate of Limulus polyphemus amoebocytes. The isolated material gave a single protein band on analytical gel electrophoresis at pH 3.2, gel electrofocusing, and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gel electrophoresis with or without 2-mercaptoethanol. It was 90 percent coagulable, and the total yield from 10 ml of the amoebocyte lysate was about 40 mg. The sedimentation coefficient of purified coagulogen was 2.6 S and its molecular weight was estimated to be about 15,300 by sedimentation equilibrium analysis. The molecular weight estimated by SDS-gel electrophoretic analysis was 19,500 +/- 1,000. This discrepancy was apparently due to abnormal mobility arising from the basic nature of this protein on electrophoresis. The protein had a high isoelectric point of pH 10.0 +/- 0.2, as measured by the isoelectric focusing technique. It consisted of a total of 132 to 135 amino acid residues and contained high levels of basic amino acids, which accounted for more than 16 per cent of the total amino acid residues. No methionine was detected. High contents of valine, half-cystine, glutamic acid (glutamine), and phenylalanine were found. The N-terminal sequence of the first three residues of the coagulogen was Ala-Asx-Thr, and its C-terminal residues was identified as phenylalanine, indicating that it consists of a single polypeptide chain. It is of interest that the first three N-terminal residues are homologous with those of the Aalpha-chain of non-human primate fibrinogen.
1. The mitotic rate in the crypts of Lieberkhn of the descending colon and in dimethylhydrazine-induced adenocarcinomata of the descending colon of rat was measured using a stathmokinetic technique. 2. Intraperitoneal injection of a small dose (10 microgram/kg) of serotonin resulted in an increase in the tumour cell mitotic rate. 3. Blockade of serotonin receptors by 2-bromolysergic acid diethylamide and depletion of tissue serotonin levels following injection of DL-6-fluorotryptophan both result in a decrease in the tumour cell mitotic rate. 4. Treatment with serotonin, 2-bromolysergic acid diethylamide and DL-6-fluorotryptophan were all without effect on the colonic crypt cell mitotic rate.
Diagnosis of esophageal reflux often can be made on the basis of the characteristic symptoms of heartburn and regurgitation. When the picture is not so typical, acid reflux testing and esophageal biopsy appear to be the best indicators of esophageal reflux. Medical management is directed toward preventing reflux, neutralizing refluxed gastric contents, and enhancing clearance of refluxed material. Antacids are a mainstay of therapy, along with restrictions on diet and certain types of activity. If conservative therapy fails to control symptoms and stricture is likely to develop, surgery may be indicated.
Nutrition appeared somewhat late on the scene in the I.B.P. projects in the U.K., but eventually it occupied an integral part of many of the H.A. (human adaptability) investigations. The nutritional data obtained in the studies of isolated and nearisolated communities in Tristan da Cunha and in New Guinea provided information of wide nutritional significance. There were also detailed and extensive studies in Israel which, similarly to those in New Guinea, attempted to relate nutritional factors to enviroment, working conditions, and physical fitness. Some extraordinarily low energy intakes found in Ethiopians have induced much speculation on the extent which man can adequately adapt to restricted food supplies. Interesting nutritional observations, of general importance, have also arisen from results obtained on such disparate groups as Glasgow adolescents, Tanzanian and Sudanese students, children in Malawi and vegans in the U.K.
The neuroepithelial bodies (NEB's) of the lung of 29-day-old fetuses and 1-day-old rabbits, under the conditions of this study, neither take up 3H-thymidine nor undergo mitosis. Also the NEB's are not derived at these times from proliferations of other kinds of epithelial cells in the intrapulmonary airways. It is, therefore, suggested that the difference in numbers of NEB's previously observed by us, between the 29-day fetus and the 1-day-old rabbit, is due either to regranulation or acquisition of argyrophilic material by the NEB's or differentiation of other epithelial types. It is concluded that the NEB's are composed of well differentiated cells, which have a greatly reduced capacity to undergo mitosis.
The medical management of patients with acute respiratory illnesses was analyzed at two different clinics during a 14- to 21-month period. Patients received care from either physicians or physician-supervised physician's assistants (PA). The PAs used respiratory illness clinical algorithms to guide their choice of diagnostic tests and treatment. Illness outcome, patient satisfaction, and medical care cost data were obtained for all patients approximately two weeks after the index illness. Despite significant differences in patient population characteristics, illness outcomes were similar, regardless of the provider's educational background. Medical care costs, however, were highest for the physician's patients. For all patients, diagnostic tests contributed about one-third of the total direct costs, mainly because of chest x-ray and throat culture use. Sixty to eighty per cent of medication costs were due to nonprescription drugs used principally for symptom relief. The data demonstrate that the medical care delivered by these physician's assistants was as effective and less costly than the care provided by physicians. Reducing chest x-ray and throat culture use would have a significant economic impact, without adversely affecting medical care effectiveness.
The ability of cocaine to exert internal stimulus control of behavior was investigated by training rats to discriminate 10 mg/kg cocaine from saline in a discrete-trial, two-lever, food-reward procedure. Acquisition of response control by cocaine (1) succeeded in all animals tested, (2) proceeded rapidly, and (3) was associated with a high Commission Error: Omission Error ratio. These findings support the hypothesis that cocaine, a prototype of drugs inducing a psychotic condition in humans, can act as a powerful internal stimulus in rats. The cocaine cue was also responsive to the action of the dopamine-receptor-blocking agents spiperone (ED50: 0.06 mg/kg), haloperidol (0.24 mg/kg), and pimozide (1.90 mg/kg). d, l-Amphetamine (1.25 mg/kg) induced stimulus generalization with cocaine, and this generalization was blocked by dosages of the same neuroleptics comparable to those of cocaine antagonism. The results are discussed in terms of internal stimulus control of behavior and its relevance to the psychophysiology of schizophrenia.
The authors compared the activity of acetyl-CoA-synthetase and of the enzymes belonging to the group of asparaginic acid in levomycetin sensitive and resistant strains of Y. pestis and E. coli. There were revealed marked differences in the activity of aspartase, fumarase, synthetase and desamidase of L-asparagin, and also of the enzyme activated by acetate in the E. coli strains with plasmide resistance. Transmission of R-factor to the pestis was accompanied by decomposition of L-asparadein, formation of AC-CoA. At the same time transformation of L-asparaginic acid catalyzed by aspartase remained on the same low level in the sensitive pestis cultures and their variants with the R-factor. When the resistance was controlled by chromosomal resistance markers, the activity of the enzymes providing formation of L-asparagic acid, its amide and L-malic acid showed no significant change. In chromosomal type of resistance in the mutants of pestis and E. coli the acetyl-CoA-synthetase reaction was as a rule somewhat increased.
The use of distribution coefficients (log D) for the analysis of structure-activity relationships of ionizable compounds is described. (D is the ratio of the equilibrium concentration of compound in an organic phase to the total concentration of un-ionized and ionized species in the aqueous phase at a given pH.) Simpler equations, often with improved correlations, have resulted. This method has the advantage that the influence of pKa or equivalent electronic factors on distribution can be distinguished from electronic effects related to mechanism of action. Several absorption studies are reanalyzed as well as studies on membrane conductance and uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation.
Three virus strains closely related to Tettnang virus were isolated from nymphs and males of Ixodes ricinus tick in Moravia and Slovakia. The virus isolates were lethal for suckling mice on intracerebral (i.c.) inoculation but the virus titres in the brain were low. The incubation period of 5--12 days in the first mouse passage was shortened to 3 days in further passages. Infection of mice was accompanied by ultrastructural changes in the cytoplasm of neurons. Groups of spherical virus particles 75 to 80 nm in diameter occurred within simple vacuoles.
A sensitive fluorometric assay utilizing 4-methylumbelliferyl sulphate has been developed for the simultaneous determination of arylsulphatases A and B from leucocytes, based on the differential effect of silver ions on the two enzymes. The procedure allows discrimination between normal cases and those with metachromatic leucodystrophy.
Protein kinase activities were identified in a soluble and a particulate fraction from the A. coronaria of cattle. For both protein kinase activities Mg++ is essential. Protamine was used as a substrate of the protein kinase activity of the soluble fraction. The pH optimum of the protein kinase activity of the soluble fraction is around 6.5. The Km-value of the protein kinase for ATP is 1.9 +/- 0.4 - 10(-5) M. cAMP stimulates the protein kinase activity more effectively than cGMP. Ca++ cannot replace Mg++; monovalent cations (Na+ and K+) show no influence. The protein kinase activity of the fraction was determined via endogenous phosphorylation. By means of the cAMP-dependent particulate protein kinase 72 to 80 percent of the serine residues are phosphorylated. The pH optimum of the protein kinase activity of the particulate fraction lies around 7.0. The Km-value of the enzyme for ATP is 6.6 +/- 0.8 - 10(-5) M. cGMP stimulates the protein kinase of the particulate fraction better than cAMP. For the protein kinase activity of this fraction Ca++ replaces Mg++ in the endogenous phosphorylation but not in the exogenous phosphorylation (protamine). In the presence of Mg++ and in the additional presence of Na+ or K+, the protein kinase activity is suppressed in the endogenous phosphorylation whereas it is stimulated in the exogenous phosphorylation.
The third reported case of bilateral central retinal artery occlusion associated with polyarteritis nodosa is presented. An alternative etiology of the frequently observed association of polyarteritis nodosa with optic atrophy is suggested. A plan of therapy is recommended.
A significant tumor damaging effect (growth inhibition) on transplanted syngeneic sarcoma in mouse was obtained by means of pH-dependent activation of a transport form of a cancerostatic drug by an enzyme foreign to the organism. This effect was achieved by combined administration of 8-0-(alpha-L-arabinofuranosyl)beta-peltatin-A as a transport form of beta-peltatin-A and the exogenous enzyme alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase from Aspergillus niger and additional increase of the acidity of the tumor by injection of glucose. The combined application of the transport form plus enzyme showed a more favorable effect on selectivity than free peltatin when a quantitative comparison was made between the tumor growth inhibition and the damage to the blood picture.
We have compared the melanophore-stimulating action of four phenothiazines, trifluoperazine, perphenazine, chlorpromazine, and prochlorperazine, with alpha-MSH on the skin of the lizard Anolis carolinensis, using a new rate method of bioassay. The dose-response curves for the phenothiazines were parallel to that of alpha-MSH, and when given together alpha-MSH and chlorpromazine were additive. The phenothiazines may therefore stimulate melanosome dispersion in the lizard skin by the same mechanism as alpha-MSH; a MSH-mimetic action of phenothiazines may similarly explain their pigmentary action in man. The pigmentary potency of the phenothiazines corresponded with their therapeutic potency in man; this is in keeping with a neuro-regulatory role for MSH peptides and suggests a possible therapeutic use for them.
A dependence of rat liver urocaninase activity on the agents affecting the adenylate cyclase system was studied in vitro and in vivo. Urocaninase is considerably activated after the injection of glucagone, NaF, theophylline and 3',5'-AMP. Under conditions optimal for the protein kinase activity of phosphorylase the urocaninase of liver extracts was activated 7-fold on the average. The nezyme retains its activity after gel-filtration through Sephadex G-25 and is capable of inactivation in the presence of Mg2+ and of reactivation after addition of ATP and 3',5'-AMP. These data suggest a possibility of regulation of mammalian liver urocaninase activity by 3',5'-AMP-dependent phosphorylation of the enzyme. Derivatives of hypoxanthine (theophylline and caffeine) in concentration 10(-4) M activate urocaninase in liver extracts 2--3 and 1.5-fold respectively. The activation is probably not due to the 3',5'-AMP phosphodiesterase inhibition, since another phosphodiesterase inhibitor--papaverine--has no activating effect on urocaninase.
A calcium-activated neutral protease was purified 2,700-fold over the crude extract from chicken skeletal muscle. The purified protease migrated as a single band on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with or without SDS. Its molecular weight was 80,000 and pH optimum for activity was 7.7. The activity required strictly the presence of calcium (optimum concentration: 1.8 mM) or strontium (optimum concentration: 10 mM) ions. The protease was inhibited by leupeptin, which is known to be a strong inhibitor of papain, cathepsin B, trypsin, and plasmin.
In this paper are considered the etiology, the clinical findings and the management of anaesthesia for a certain number of ENT emergencies, situations of respiratory distress which may lead rapidly to death, or be the cause of severe complications, e.g. -haemorrhage (epistaxis or tonsilar haemorrhage, haemorrhage from carcinoma..), -dyspnea of the adult, neonatal dyspnea and dyspnea of infants and children, -foreign bodies, burns and perforations of the esophagus.
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) in a venoarterial perfusion circuit was used to provide support of gas exchange during bronchopulmonary lavage in a 32-year-old man with pulmonary alveolar proteinosis and severe arterial hypoxemia. Prior to the lavage, Pao2 during mechanical ventilation with 100% oxygen and positive end-expiratory pressure was only 125 mm Hg. Extracorporeal perfusion at a flow rate of 3 liters/min, with oxygen delivery of 244 ml/min, increased the Pao2 to 227 mmHg and lowered the mean pulmonary artery pressure from 28 to 24 mm Hg. During bronchopulmonary lavage and ECMO, the Pao2 ranged between 46 and 96 mm Hg. After the procedure, pulmonary performance decidely improved. By reducing the chances of fatal hypoxemia, ECMO allowed treatment to be instituted for this potentially reversible disorder and proved helpful as a form of support during the management of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis when severe hypoxemia may have other wise precluded bronchopulmonary lavage.
The C6 glioma cell line contains nerve growth factor (NGF) which can be released into the medium. Treatment of the cells with beta-adrenoceptor agonists resulted in increased content of NGF in both the cells and the medium within a few hours, whereas alpha-adrenoceptor agonists were ineffective. The response was blocked by beta- but not alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists. The increase of the NGF content of glioma cells appeared to be mediated by an elevation of cyclic AMP or GMP. The addition to the cell cultures of other putative neurotransmitters failed to change the content of either NGF or cyclic AMP. These results are discussed with respect to a model for adrenergic neuron-glial interactions.
The quenching of liver alcohol dehydrogenase protein fluorescence at alkaline pH indicates two conformational states of the enzyme with a pKa of 9.8+/-0.2, shifted to 10.6+/-0.2 in D2O. NAD+ and 2-p-toluidinonaphthalene-6-sulfonate, a fluorescent probe competitive with coenzyme, bind to the acid conformation of the enzyme. The pKa of the protein-fluorescence quenching curve is shifted toward 7.6 in the presence of NAD+, and the ternary complex formation with NAD+ and trifluoroethanol results in a pH-independent maximal quench. At pH (pD) 10.5, the rate constant for NAD+ binding was 2.6 times faster in D2O2 than in  H2O due to the shift of the pKa. Based on these results, a scheme has been proposed in which the state of protonation of an enzyme functional group with a pKa of 9.8 controls the conformational state of the enzyme. NAD+ binds to the acid conformation and subsequently causes another conformational change resulting in the perturbation of the pKa to 7.6. Alcohol then binds to the unprotonated form of the functional group with a pKa of 7.6 in the binary enzyme-NAD+ complex and converts the enzyme to the alkaline conformation. Thus, at neutral pH liver alcohol dehydrogenase undergoes two conformational changes en route to the ternary complex in which hydride transfer occurs.
In connection with a gerontological research project data on the physical of the persons being investigated were, amongst other sources, also obtained through a mail survey of family doctors. How far survey shortcomings have a distorting effect was studied. The results indicate that a mail survey of family doctors may yield appropriate data even if some of the physicians named by the persons being investigated do not respond.
The purpose of the present investigation was to study variations in the population density of microorganisms, their qualitative and quantitative composition during substrate-free cultivation of beats. The results obtained show that the microbial number in the nutrient solution increased by the time of intensive growth of beats and decreased by the time of harvesting. The number of root microorganisms was much greater than the total number of microorganisms in the nutrient solution. Oligonitrophils and nitrogen fixing bacteria were found in the solution. This may be associated with a transient decrease of nitrogen in the solution. The number of ammonifiers and denitrifiers in the solution increased significantly by the end  of plant vegetation; the amount of denitrifiers inhabiting the roots decreased during vegetation and that of ammonifiers increased. In the middle of vegetation cellulose decomposing aerobes appeared; this might occur since root hairs began to die off. By the end of vegetation an insignificant amount of fungi was also found. Nitrifying and spore-forming microorganisms were not detected. The identification of predominant microbial species showed them to be bacteria of the genera Pseudomonas and Mycobacterium. Besides, microorganisms of the genera Bacterium, Micrococcus, Mycococcus, Chromobacterium and Pseudobacterium also occurred.
Studying the influence of aminoglutethimide treatment on calcitonin sensitivity, serum calcium levels were measured in normal rats, aminoglutethimide treated rats, adrenalectomized and castrated rats, following i.v. injection of porcine calcitonin. The aminoglutethimide administration caused a more distinct calcitonin resistance than surgical sex hormone deprivation. It was found that castration in most of experiments failed to enhance calcitonin resistance in aminoglutethimide treated animals. The aminoglutethimide administration may influence the steroid synthesis of adrenals, accessory adrenals and testes too. Results obtained with castrated, aminoglutethimide plus dehydroepiandrosterone treated and castrated, aminoglutethimide plus epiandrosterone treated rats affirm the earlier observations, i.e. in state of sex hormone deficiency the exogeneous androgens have an enhancing or restoring effect on calcitonin sensitivity.
The behaviour of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was compared with other serum enzyme activities and functional parameters in a carefully selected and relatively extensive series of patients with liver disease, including alcoholics, in an investigation of the underlying pathogenesis and its clinical expression. Reference. to the literature and to personal data showed that increased gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase levels could be attributed to enzyme induction (caused by drugs or alcohol), liver damage in the broad sense, and intra- or extrahepatic cholestasis. These causes were individually predominant, or nearly so, on occasions, though their concomitance was more common. High levels, however, were not pathognomonic for a given disease. In alcoholism, they were highly indicative, especially if accompanied by GLD changes. They were a virtually constant, early, and typical finding in intra- and extra-hepatic cholestasis, and tended to persist for a time after the resolution of icterus. Lastly, they were an aid in the early diagnosis of aggressive hepatitis and liver cancer.
Fifty-three patients with scleroderma were evaluated by history, barium swallow, and esophageal function tests. The most common esophageal symptoms were heartburn and dysphagia. Abnormal motility was seen radiologically in 43 patients, gastroesophageal reflux in only 9. Esophageal function tests demonstrated: (1) abnormal motility in 51 patients and lack of a distal esophageal high-pressure zone in 18; (2) moderate to severe gastroesophageal reflux in 38; and (3) abnormal acid-clearing ability in 50. Eleven patients, including 8 with peptic stricture, underwent the combined Collis-Belsey operation. Symptomatically, reflux was abolished in all and dysphagia in 10. Roentgenograms showed that regression of strictures was complete in 5 and partial in 3. Postoperative esophageal function tests in 9 patients demonstrated a competent distal esophageal valvular mechanism in 7. Gastroesophageal reflux, not impaired motility, is the major cause of esophageal symptoms in scleroderma. Its effecitve operative control is not contraindicated by systemic disease in these patients.
It is well-known that the cAMP-adenylate cyclase system is important in mediating the effects of numerous hormones. We investigated the age-dependent behaviour of this system in aortas and femoral arteries of male Wistar rats (at the age of 10 days, 1, 4, 8, 12, and 22 months). It was found that: The basic adenylate cyclase activity had considerably been decreased beyond the first month of life, thereafter it was almost constant. The response of adenylate cyclase to guanylyl-imidodi-phosphate and NaF had essentially been elevated since the 4th month of age. The possibility of stimulating the cAMP generation due to epinephrine and histamine had substantially been increased since the 12th month of age. Besides the ability of adrenaline and histamine to stimulate the formation of cyclic AMP was investigated in broken cell preparation and intact cells of smooth muscle of the aorta and femoral artery of rats which had been subjected to daily intermittend immobilization of 1, 3, and 17 weeks. It was found that this type of stress led to an instability of the blood pressure which was associated with an increase in the sensitivity of adenylate cyclase in the broken cell preparations from the arteries to adrenaline and histamine and with a heightened cyclic AMP response to the two hormones in the intact arterial smooth muscle cells. The sensitivity of cardiac adenylate cyclase for adrenaline remained unchanged.
In separate experiments, after repeated oral administration of 3,4,4'-trichlorocarbanilide (TCC) and 3-trifluoromethyl-4,4'-dichlorocarbanilide (TFC) to rats, the biliary metabolites of each were isolated and identified. The major TCC biliary metabolite was found to be 2'-hydroxy-TCC. This compound was isolated mainly from the nonconjugated and the glucuronide fractions. Other metabolites present in substantial quantities were 6-hydroxy-TCC and 2',6-dihydroxy-TCC mainly as glucuronides and 3'-hydroxy TCC mainly as the sulfate conjugate. Small amounts of 3',6-dihydroxy-TCC were isolated from each of the fractions. No unchanged TCC was found in the bile. Only traces of other metabolites were found, and no N-hydroxylated products were observed. The major TFC biliary metabolite was the glucuronide conjugate of 2'-hydroxy-TFC. The only other metabolite of TFC was 3'-hydroxy-TFC, which was the predominant metabolite in the sulfate-conjugated fraction.
The authors report the values of mean hemispheric blood-flow and cerebral arterial consumption they found in 34 neurosurgical comatous cases in acute state. In basal conditions, mean values of mean hemispheric bloodflow and oxygen consumption are lowered. There seems to be a relation between the values found and the comatous stage on one hand, the prognosis on the other hand. The cerebral response to hypercapnia (16 assays) allows to separate 2 groups, one with a noticeable improvement of cerebral bloodflow, the other with only a minimal response. There was no significant variation of cerebral oxygen consumption in both group. Cerebral response to CO2 seems to be clearly related to the stage of coma (low in the most severe cases) but pronostic incidence remained uncertain. A hypertensive test by means of Aramine (18 assays) allows to separate 3 groups : 1 group (8 cases) where the mean hemispheric bloodflow remained stable during hypertension as did the cerebral oxygen consumption -(autoregulation remained unchanged), 1 group (4 cases) where mean hemispheric bloodflow and cerebral oxygen consumption were lowered (excessive autoregulation), 1 group (6 cases) where mean hemispheric bloodflow increases clearly while under Aramine perfusion (loss of autoregulation). Those dynamic tests, either hypercapnic or hypertensive, allow, in comparing oxygen consumption variations with cerebral bloodflow variations, the distinction between : patients where metabolic autoregulation seems maintained (good prognosis) - (10 cases), patients where metabolic regulation is lost with either "luxury perfusion" (14 cases) - poor prognosis, or "insufficient perfusion" (10 cases). The authors are discussing the treatment concerning those last mentioned patients.
The adsorption of oxytetracycline hydrochloride, tetracycline hydrochloride, doxycycline hyclate, triacetyloleandomycin, chloramphenicol, ampicillin, and cloxacillin sodium was studied on various antacids namely, magnesium trisilicate, magnesium oxide, calcium carbonate, bismuth oxycarbonate, aluminium hydroxide, and kaolin. The adsorption of the various antibiotics by milk was also tested as milk is frequently used as an antacid. Charcoal was included in the present study as a model adsorbent having a large hydrophobic surface. The adsorption of the various antibiotics on the different antacids and other adsorbents in most cases obeyed the Freundlich adsorption isotherm. Magnesium trisilicate and magnesium oxide showed the highest adsorptive capacity, relative to other antacids used, for most antibiotics. Calcium carbonate and aluminium hydroxide and intermediate power while kaolin and bismuth oxycarbonate had the least adsorptive power. Charcoal exhibited a marked adsorption for all antibiotics tested. Tetracyclines were found to be more highly adsorbed than other antibiotics studied. Triacetyloleandomycin and chloramphenicol had intermediate values. Ampicillin was only adsorbed to a slight extent while cloxacillin was not adsorbed on the antacids used. The extent of adsorption was correlated to the structure of both the adsorbent and adsorbate, the pH of the adsorbent suspension, and to the polarity of the antibiotic in such pH. The reversibility of the adsorption process was studied in different media and at pH values similar to those of the gastrointestinal tract. The extent of elution was found to be inversely proportional to the adsorptive capacity of the different adsorbents. In general, 0.0143 n NaHCO3 solution was found to possess higher eluting properties than 0.01 n HCl. An exception to this pattern was observed with tetracyclines adsorbed on aluminium hydroxide where the elution with acid resulted in a higher degree of desorption. Careful in vitro and in vivo testing of drug availability is advisable prior to the concomitant administration of antibiotics with antacids or other adsorbents.
1. The adipokinetic hormone release, which can be induced by anticholinesterases, is reduced by depleting the content of monoamines in the nervous system. 2. The participation of monoamines in the pathway of release of adipokinetic hormone is studied in vivo and in vitro. 3. A possible mechanism for anticholinesterase-induced release of this hormone involving cholinergic and aminergic transmission is postulated.
Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase isolated from Rhodospirillum rubrum was strongly inhibited by low concentrations of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. Activity was protected by the substrate ribulose bisphosphate and to a lesser extent by other phosphorylated compounds. Pyridoxal phosphate inhibition was enhanced in the presence of magnesium and bicarbonate, but not in the presence of either compound alone. Concomitant with inhibition of enzyme activity, pyridoxal phosphate forms a Schiff base with the enzyme which is reversible upon dialysis and reducible with sodium borohydride. Subsequent to reduction of the Schiff base with tritiated sodium borohydride, tritiated N6-pyridoxyllysine could be identified in the acid hydrolysate of the enzyme. Only small amounts of this compound were present when the reduction was performed in the presence of carboxyribitol bisphosphate, an analogue of the intermediate formed during the carboxylation reaction. Therefore, it is concluded that pyridoxal phosphate modifies a lysyl residue close to or at the active site of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase.
Alkali treatment of food proteins converts some amino acid residues to the unnatural amino acid lysinoalanine which has been found to cause kidney damage when fed to rats. Formation of lysinoalanine was essentially prevented when isolates of soy protein and casein were exposed to alkali in the presence of thio-alamino acids such as cysteine. The results suggest that added thiols minimize the formation of potentially toxic lysinoalanine.
1. Temperature has a characteristic effect on the frequency of m.e.p.p.s at the frog neuromuscular junction; the spontaneous release of transmitter is not affected by temperature changes below 10 degrees C whereas the system is highly temperature-sensitive above 20 degrees C.2. A very similar result is obtained when the experiment is repeated in saline containing Ca(2+) buffered at 5 x 10(-7)M, suggesting that it is unlikely that the major action of temperature is to cause an increase in Ca(2+) influx.3. It is suggested that the main effect of temperature at the presynaptic terminals is a modification of [Ca(2+)](i) by an action on intracellular Ca(2+) stores.4. The interacting effects of theophylline and the divalent cation ionophore A23187 on m.e.p.p. frequency suggest that intracellular Ca(2+) stores, in addition to the mitochondria, may well be of importance in controlling [Ca(2+)](i).5. Changes in [Ca(2+)](o) produce a modification of m.e.p.p. frequency, but the details of the response are dependent on temperature. The spontaneous release of transmitter is most sensitive to an increase in [Ca(2+)](o) at 23 degrees C, whereas the greater effect is found at 13 degrees C when [Ca(2+)](o) is lowered.6. It is suggested (i) that m.e.p.p. frequency is primarily determined by [Ca(2+)](i) at the presynaptic terminals, (ii) that the presynaptic terminals are normally able to maintain [Ca(2+)](i) almost constant in spite of increases in Ca influx associated with ionophore treatment or with a rise in [Ca(2+)](o). However, if the steady-state position of [Ca(2+)](i) is previously raised by an increased efflux from intracellular stores (produced by elevated temperature or theophylline pre-treatment), increased influx causes a rise in both [Ca(2+)](i) and in m.e.p.p. frequency.
The prerequisites and kinetics of HLA-antibody-induced 14C-serotonin release from platelets were investigated with five HLA-specific antisera. By studying the influence of incubation time, temperature, pH, platelet count, stirring and extent of platelet labeling, optimal results were obtained after 30 (to 60) min of incubation at 37 degrees C, pH 7.5-8.0, under constant stirring (400 rpm). Optimal platelet counts varied between 160,000 and 400,000/microliter depending on the antiserum applied. A comparison of the amount of 14C-serotonin released by different antisera from washed platelets and from platelets in platelet-rich plasma suggests that plasma components--most likely complement--may additionally influence the results. Based on these experiments, a standardized microtechnique of HLA-antibody-induced 14C-serotonin release is recommended.
The classes of antihistaminic agents, their pharmacology and therapeutic uses, adverse effects, drug interactions, toxic overdoses and abuse are reviewed. It is concluded that antihistamines are valuable drugs for treating a number of conditions and diseases (e.g. allergic rhinitis, motion sickness and parkinsonism), but proof of efficacy has not been established for the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, peptic ulcers, insomnia and headaches. Because responses to antihistamines may vary, titration of each patient's dose is recommended.
The authors report their experience of anaesthesia of ambulatory patients operated on in dental surgeries; the authors review safety factors, specially, choice of material, drugs and techniques which seem to them essential. They expose in detail their personal techniques, in particular, nasotracheal intubation and open circuit, association of a powerful analgesic drug with a short duration of activity and a mild antiemetic neuroleptic drug completed by inhalation of a mixture of Ethrane and oxygen. The various problems which may occur are considered together with their solutions.
A steady-state kinetic method has been revised for measuring lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme activities, which relates the inhibition of heart-type isoenzyme activity to the overall isoenzyme composition of the enzyme subunits. The method depends on the pH-dependent formation of an inhibitory ternary complex by the heart-type isoenzyme with NAD+ and pyruvate (if the reaction is measured by NADH oxidation). A preincubation step in the previous method is eliminated. The isoenzymes are measured by measuring the reduction of pyruvate in two different concentrations, which favor either the total or fractional activity, depending on the concentrations of pyruvate and the percentage of heart-type subunits. The method has been adapted to a centrifugal analyzer, which has speeded automated isoenzyme determinations, with an accuracy comparable to that for electrophoretic methods.
Nadolol-14C, 2,3-cis-5-(3-[(1,1-dimethylethyl)amino]-2-hydroxypropoxy)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2,3-naphthalenediol, a nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent, was administered orally and intravenously at 2-mg doses to patients with mild cases of essential hypertension. Terminal plasma half-times after oral and intravenous doses were an average of 12.2 and 9.8 hours, respectively. After oral doses, an average of 24.6 and 76.9 per cent of the dose was excreted in urine and feces, respectively, whereas, after intravenous doses, an average of 72.9 and 23.3 per cent of the dose was excreted by the same routes. Calculations of absorption, based on urinary excretion and on areas under the plasma concentration-versus-time curves, indicated that oral doses of nadolol-14C were absorbed to the extent of 33.6+/-2.4 per cent (+/- S.E.). The average overall volume of distribution after intravenous administration was 2.09+/-0.51 1./kg (+/- S.E.), and the average volume of the central compartment was 0.30+/-0.04 1./kg. Only unchanged nadolol-14C was excreted in the urine and feces of patients after either oral or intravenous administration of the drug.
High-affinity, in vitro stereospecific binding of 3H-di-hydromorphine or 3H-naloxone to brain membranes shows a marked dependence on pH; maximal binding, observed at pH 7.5-8.0, is abruptly and reversibly reduced as the pH is lowered, with the binding half-maximal at about pH 6.8. A similar pH dependence of stereospecific binding is observed with the quaternary agonist N-methyl morphine, but non-specific 3H-di-hydromorphine of 3H-naloxone binding (that not displaced by a 100-fold excess of unlabelled levorphanol) shows only a slight decrease in this pH range. Binding of agonist and antagonist at pH 6.8 show the same differences with respect to trypsin sensitivity and to the effects of Na+ and Mn++ ions that are seen at pH 8.0. It is concluded that the ability of low pH to reduce stereospecific binding is due to protonation of a membrane-bound site, and that this site is probably the anionic site of the opiate receptor. Of the four anionic groups commonly found in biological membranes, only phosphate exhibits a pK close to that of this effect. Taken with other evidence, the results suggest that the opiate receptor may be a phosphoprotein.
Several so-called 'non-specific' or 'non-drug' factors are known to interfere with the response to psychotropic drug administration. Animal emotionality has been reported to change the outcome of psychoactive drug administration, so that the response to a stimulant or depressant drug may considerably change according to the baseline state of activity of the central nervous system. Prolonged socio-encironmental deprivation or isolation has been shown to produce in rats three different types of abnormal behaviour which have been tentatively defined as 'friendly', 'indifferent' and 'muricide'. Such unusual changes in rat behaviour are assumed to reflect a series of different emotional changes. The present experiments show that psychoactive drugs can exert a different effect in relation to the different kinds of animal behaviour used in the experiments. The investigation of the properties of psychoactive compounds, as performed in experimental animals showing behavioural alterations, is then suggested as being more fruitful in providing much information closer to the clinical results than that achieved with the experiments performed in normal laboratory animals.
The specific activity, tissue specificity, and subcellular distribution of alkaline phosphatase were studied in the fetal rat limb during initial cartilage calcification and bone formation. The pH optimum, Km, activation, and inhibition characteristics of the enzyme assayed for in 900 X g supernates of whole limb homogenates indicated that the activity represented a fetal bone alkaline phosphatase. Studies examining temporal changes of the enzyme in these preparations demonstrated a substantial increase in activity over each of the days during which they were studied (days 15-18). Fractions derived from the discontinuous density gradient centrifugation of the limb preparations were used to study the chronological subcellular distribution of the enzyme. Enzyme activity was found in all of the fractions with the greatest activity occurring in fractions consisting of ribosomes and small vesicles. The vesicular component was similar to the matrix vesicles dexcribed by others in calcifying tissues. The daily increase in activity measured in the curde supernate was further reflected in the distribution studies. The association of alkaline phosphatase with the vesicular structure is compatible with the theorized functions of matrix vesicles, and the substantial increase in activity between days 15 and 18 further demonstrates an intimate association of alkaline phosphatase with skeletal development.
(1) The antibacterial acivity of ciclacillin (ACPC) with inoculum size of 10(6) cells/ml was four times less potent than that of ampicillin (ABPC) and 4 approximately 8 times less potent than that of AMPC, but was 4 approximately 8 times more potent than that of CEX against Streptococcus pyogenes. For Streptococcus pneumoniae, ACPC was 2 approximately 4 times less active than ABPC and AMPC, but 16 approximately 32 times more active than CEX. Staphylococcus aureus was 4 approximately 8 times less susceptible to ACPC than to ABPC and AMPC, but 1 approximately 2 times more susceptible than to CEX. Against E. coli, ACPC was as active as CEX, 2 approximately 4 times less active than ABPC, and 4 approximately 8 times less active than AMPC. (2) It was suposed that ACPC was more resistant to penicillinase and more antibacterial with inoculum size of 10(6) cells/ml cells/ml than with 10(6) cells/ml. ACPC was 4 approximately 8 times less active than ABPC, and AMPC against Staphylococcus aureus with 10(8) cells/ml, while with 10(6) cells/ml, it was 2 times less active than ABPC and AMPC. (3) ACPC-resistant strains (greater than or equal to 3.13 microng/ml) of Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus pneumoniae were not found. (4) A difference was noted in MIC of three semi-synthetic penicillins, ACPC, ABPC and AMPC, against Staphylococcus aureus, and E. coli between the sources from which their strains were isolated. (5) There were many strains resistant to erythromycin (EM) and josamycin (JM) (greater than 60%, respectively to both antibiotics) in Stretpococcus pyogenes and pus-isolated Staphylococcus aureus. No strains of Streptococcus pyogenes, were found resistant to EM and JM.
Nuclear extracts of varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-infected human embryo lung (HEL) cells were found to contain DNA polymerase activity not present in uninfected HEL cells. This enzyme was designated the VZV-induced DNA polymerase. The VZV-induced polymerase was partially separated from the cellular alpha- and beta-polymerases by fractionation of the cells and by phosphocellulose chromatography. The separated enzymes were examined for the effect of added (NH4)2SO4, activity with synthetic templates, optimal pH, and the effect of phosphonoacetic acid. The VZV-induced DNA polymerase was distinct from cellular enzymes and had the properties of a typical herpesvirus-induced DNA polymerase.
In this paper the literature on helminthiasis in Iran is reviewed and the distribution, prevalence and intensity of infections caused by helminths are discussed. A comparison of prevalence and intensity of infections was accomplished in the recent 10 years by the author. Hookworm infections are found mostly in the north along the Caspian sea, but its prevalence is declining. Trichostrongylus are found in Iran with a high prevalence in central country. Schistosoma haematobium is found in one Province in the south, but its prevalence is declining because of large scale control activities. The Guinea worm rarely occurs in Iran. The prevalence of Fasciola hepatica is high among livestock and is occasionally found in man. Taenia saginata is found in most parts of Iran. Taenia solium is seldom found in animals with a prevalence of 0.03%. Trichinella spiralis is infrequently found in animals. Dioctophyma renale is found in straying dogs in the north or Iran, the percentage is 13-35%. Oxyuriasis is widespread among children.
The external electric field strength required for electrical hemolysis of human red blood cells depends sensitively on the composition of the external medium. In isotonic NaCl und KCl solutions the onset of electrical hemolysis is observed at 4 kV per cm and 50 per cent hemolysis at 6 kV per cm, whereas increasing concentrations of phosphate, sulphate, sucrose, inulin and EDTA shift the onset and the 50 per cent hemolysis-value to higher field strengths. The most pronounced effect is observed for inulin and EDTA. In the presence of these substances the threshold value of the electric field strength is shifted to 14 kV per cm. This is in contrast to the dielectric breakdown voltage of human red blood cells which is unaltered by these substances and was measured  to be approximately 1 V corresponding in the electrolytical discharge chamber to an external electric field strength of 2 to 3 kV per cm. On the other hand, dielectric breakdown of bovine red blood cell membranes occurs in NaCl solution at 4 to 5 kV per cm and is coupled directly with hemoglobin release. The electrical hemolysis of cells of this species is unaffected by the above substances with exception of inulin. Inulin suppressed the electrical hemolysis up to 15 kV per cm. The data can be explained by the assumption that the reflection coefficients of the membranes of these two species to bivalent anions and uncharged molecules are field-dependent to a different extent. This explanation implies that electrical hemolysis is a secondary process of osmotic nature induced by the reversible permeability change of the membrane (dielectric breakdown) in response to an electric field. This view is supported by the observation that the mean volumes of ghost cells obtained by electrical hemolysis can be changed by changing the external phosphate concentration during hemolysis and resealing, or by subjecting the cells to a transient osmotic stress immediately after the electrical hemolysis step. An interesting finding is that the breakdown voltage, although constant throughout each normally distributed ghost size distribution, increases with increasing mean volume of the ghost populations.
Preliminary studies on the metabolism of manelic acid by Neurospora crassa reveal the operation of a pathway for its degradation which involves benzoyl formic acid, benzaldehyde, benzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and protocatechuic acid as the intermediates. This pathway is different from the followed by bacterial systems and is the same as that observed in Aspergillus niger.
The manufacturers state that NAB 365 is a beta2-receptor-stimulating sympathicomimetic agent. According to the medical literature it combines a bronchial antispasmodic effect with certain bronchia secretolytic properties and has few untoward side-effects on, for instance, the heart and intestine. The effectiveness of administration of NAB 365 in horses with chronic or acute respiratory disease was tested in the Department of Veterinary Internal medicine in Utrecht. NAB 365 administered at a dosage of 0.8 gamma/kg, of body weight was found to have a marked bronchodilative effect in horses. There was also evidence of a bronchialsecretolytic effect. NAB 365 has a beneficial effect on respiration. At a dosage of 0.8 gamma/kg of body weight, twice daily, there are few side-effects, even when administration is continued for a fortnight. The clinical effect on respiration continued practically throughout the day.
The characteristics of inorganic phosphate transport in isolated perfused proximal tubules of the rabbit were examined using radioisotopic techniques. When tubules were perfused with an ultrafiltrate of rabbit serum, the mean lumen-to-bath flux of phosphate in the convoluted segment was 6.60 +/- 1.41 (SE) pmol/mm-min with a simultaneous back-to-lumen flux of 0.45 +/- 0.08. In the straight portion of the proximal tubule, the lumen-to-bath flux was significantly lower (P less than 0.01) at 2.22 +/- 0.48 pmol/min-min with a bath-to-lumen flux of 0.31 +/- 0.05. The lumen-to-bath flux was not affected by increases in the intraluminal phosphate concentration from 2.00 +/- 0.19 to 3.12 +/- 0.34 mM or by the isohydric replacement of bicarbonate in the ambient fluids with chloride. However, phosphate absorption was completely inhibited by ouabain 10(-5) M in the bath. These data indicate that phosphate absorption in these segments occurs by a mechanism other than independent diffusion and is saturated at phosphate concentrations characteristic of normal glomerular filtrate. There is no evidence for significant phosphate transport from bath to lumen.
Malic enzyme, which requires NADP+ as a coenzyme, was isolated and purified  from pupae of the silkworm, Bombyx mori. The purified enzyme appeared homogeneous and had a molecular weight of 195,000 on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The optimum pH for the oxidative decarboxylation of malate, measured in terms of the increase of NADPH (MH activity) and CO2 (MC activity), was pH 7.5, while that for the decarboxylation of oxaloacetate measured in terms of the increase of CO2 (OC activity) was pH 4.6. Several differences between MH  and OC activity were investigated.
The dimerization of dueteroferrihaem in aqueous solution has been investigated using a parameter, named the dimerization index (Robs). This is defined as the ratio of extinction coefficients at wavelengths corresponding to Soret band maxima for the monomeric and dimeric species, respectively. For solutions containing mainly monomeric species, Robs greater than 2, whereas for solutions containing mainly dimeric species Robs less than 1. A computer programme has been applied to determine values of the dimerization constant, K, defined as: K = [dimer] [H+]/[monomer]2. Phosphate buffer anions and Tris . HCl buffer enhanced dimerization. Monovalent and divalent cations also increased dimerization, but in a specific manner. The magnitudes of their effects increased in the order K+ less than Na+ less than Li+ less than Sr2+ less than Mg2+ approximately or equal to Ca2+. Values of K were determined for several concentrations of Na+ and Sr2+. These data are interpreted in terms of a stabilization of the ferrihaem dimer by the formation of ion triplets with the added cation 'sandwiched' between carboxyl residues of the adjacent ferrihaem monomeric units. General guidelines are recommended for the choice of conditions which minimize dimerization.
Six male patients with chronic bronchitis, who were known previously to have excreted Streptococcus pneumoniae and/or Haemophilus influenzae, both at the times of exacerbations and during remission, were studied for 43 to 52 months. Sputum was examined fortnightly and at the time of exacerbations. Strains of Strep. pneumoniae were serotyped and those of Haemophilus species were typed by antibiograms along with other supporting methods. Sera collected before or at the time of an exacerbation and seven and 30 days afterwards were examined by complement fixation tests against respiratory viruses and Mycoplasma pneumoniae. In 18 out of 25 exacerbations there was evidence of a new type of Strep. pneumoniae and/or Haemophilus spp. or of a current virus infection, suggesting exogenous infection in the majority of these cases. There was a possible reason for failure to detect a new pathogen in three of the seven cases in which none was found. In five further exacerbations adequate investigation was not possible.
Poly (2'-amino-2'-deoxyadenylic acid)  [poly (Aa)] was prepared from chemically synthesized 2'-amino-2'-deoxy-ADP by the catalysis of polynucleotide phosphorylase. Poly (Aa) showed a similar UV absorption spectra to poly (A), but quite different CD spectra at pH 7.0 and 5.7. At the former pH it showed a single negative Cotton band and at the latter a curve with a large splitting of bands. Acid titration of poly (Aa) suggested protonated form below pH 7.0. Temperature absorption profiles and their dependency on sodium ion concentration suggested an ordered structure for poly (Aa) which is stabilized by stacking of bases and intrastrand interaction between 2'-amino and internucleotidic phosphate groups. Poly (Aa) forms a 1:2 complex with poly (U) at neutrality and its Tm was 45 degrees in the presence of 0.15M sodium ion.
Bacteriophage T5 induced a deoxynucleoside 5'-monophosphatase during its infection of Escherichia coli. The enzyme was purified about 100-fold. It was clearly distinct from the host 5'-nucleotidase activity in its physical characteristics and substrate specificity. The enzyme was active on deoxynucleoside 5'-monophosphates but was not active as a phosphatase on ribonucleotides, deoxynucleoside 5'-triphosphates, deoxynucleoside 3'-monophosphates, or deoxyoligonucleotides. Furthermore, it did not have oligonucleotidase or exonuclease activity. The enzyme could exist in multimeric form but had a monomer molecular weight of about 25,000.
A deficient erythrocyte pyruvate kinase observed in a patient with congenital non-spherocytic anaemia was characterized by the following properties: very low activity in haemolysates, decreased thermal stability, slightly increased urea denaturation, high affinity for PEP, poor FDP activation, normal ATP inhibition, decreased affinity for ADP, normal pH of optimal activity, and presence of an abnormal slow-moving component in this layer polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The patient was probably double heterozygous for two different deficient mutants of erythrocyte pyruvate kinase.
Seminal proteins (IgA, IgG, albumin) were measured in normozoospermic patients and in patients with normozoospermia associated with agglomerations of spermatozoa. The type of agglomeration was not taken into account. A slight yet significant increase in seminal IgA was detected in patients with agglomerations whereas the other proteins remained unchanged. By testing seminal plasma against C1q by double diffusion it was shown that many patients of both groups had nonimmune C1q precipitins. The significance of such precipitins in semen is not known.
A material suitable for base-pair-specific "affinity chromatography" of double stranded DNA is described. The synthesis of this material involves two successive polymerization reactions yielding solid particles of cross-linked bisacrylamide to which base-pair-specific dyes are covalently attached by spacers of polyacrylamide chains of different length. Materials with immobilized A.T-specific malachite green or G.C-specific phenyl neutral red were used for base-pair-specific fractionation of sheared DNA from bacterial sources, as well as of higher molecular weight Calf thymus DNA or defined fragments of coliphage lambda DNA. The excellent resolving power of this method of "affinity chromatography" of nucleic acids is comparable only to DNA fractionation in buoyant density gradients in the presence of base-pair-specific ligands. A great advantage of this material is its simple handling and its chemical stability, which allows repeated re-use of the same column.
A report is given about the efficacy of prostaglandin F2alpha for induction of labour after inefficient application of oxytocininfusion. In all cases induction of labour was indicated or labour should be supported. 80 of the 104 women with weak labour finally delivered on vaginal way. Only 9 of 24 caesarean sections were performed by reason of weak labour in spite of application of prostaglandin F2alpha. There was no influence on the state of the newborns, this was the result of postnatal judgment by Apgar-score.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae readily underwent autolysis when suspended in N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) buffer at alkaline pH values. Autolysis was inhibited by the addition of Mg2+ or other divalent cations. Autolysis was also suppressed at acid pH (pH 6.0). Suspension of cells in buffer was accompanied by the hydrolysis of peptidoglycan. The rate of peptidoglycan hydrolysis in HEPES buffer was maximal at pH 8.5 and was similar in the presence or absence of Mg2+. Therefore, divalent cation stabilization against autolysis is not mediated by inhibition of peptidoglycan hydrolysis. Peptidoglycan hydrolysis occurred in HEPES buffer (pH 6.0), but at a rate that was 50% of the maximum. Incubation of cells with chloramphenicol or rifampin before suspension in HEPES buffer (pH 8.5) partially prevented autolysis; under these conditions, peptidoglycan hydrolysis still occurred, but at a reduced rate. Old and new peptidoglycans were hydrolyzed at similar rates. Peptidoglycan hydrolysis results in solubilization of both the peptide and glycan moieties.
The vasodilatation caused by histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine may be due, at least in part, to their inhibitory action on adrenergic neurotransmission. The evidence for this is as follows: 1) contractions of isolated canine vascular strips caused by sympathetic nerve stimulation are depressed by these substances whereas contractions caused by norepinephrine are either unchanged or augmented; 2) histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine inhibit the release of norepinephrine evoked by sympathetic nerve stimulation of isolated vascular strips previously incubated with the labeled transmitter. This inhibitory effect can be demonstrated using concentrations of the substinces less than those required to affect the smooth muscle cells directly. By contrast, neither histamine nor 5-hydroxytryptamine inhibits the displacement of neuronal norepinephrine by tyramine, suggesting that these substances interfere with the exocytotic process. Additional studies have identified the histamine-H2 receptor as the probable mediator of this prejunctional action of histamine, whereas the nature of the receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine remains to be clarified.
The spleen cells transfer from mice CBA at the 25th day of the carcinogenesis latent period induced by adenovirus SA7(S8) to newborn syngeneic animals caused the graft versus host reaction in them. There was splenomegaly and progressive decrease in weight of the recipients' thymus. Analogous alterations of lymphoid organs were noted in the animals infected during the neonatal period by oncogenic adenovirus SA7(C8). Results showed that adenoviral carcinogenesis had some manifestations of autoimmune disease.
Acid phosphatase II (AP II) was isolated from the cell-free extract of Pichia guilliermondii Wickerham ATCC 9058 and partially purified. The enzyme is a non-specific phosphomonoesterase. It hydrolyzes p-nitrohenyl-phophate (NPP), beta-glycerophosphate, glucose-6-phosphate, guanosine-5'-monophosphate, adenosine-5'-monophosphate, cytidine-5'-monophosphate, uridine-5'-monophosphate, alpha-naphtylphosphate, FMN. The order of the substrates corresponds to the degree of their hydrolysis decrease. The Michaelis constant of the enzyme was 1.4-10-3 M for NPP as a substrate, pH optimum was 5.5 and temperature optimum-40C. AP II was strongly inhibited by MoO4-2, F-, inorganic phosphate, Cu2+ and Be2+. The activity of the enzyme in the yeast cells does not change noticeably during growth on media with low and high iron content.
Acquired aplastic anemia is a rare hematologic disease characterized by a hypoplastic bone marrow and peripheral pnacytopenia. In severe cases, where conservative medical management has been unsuccessful, bone marrow transplantation is now being performed. Between the years 1971 and 1975, twenty-two patients with severe aplastic anemia were seen at the Children's Hospital Medical Center. This article discusses the oral presentations of aplastic anemia and the dental management of nine patients without and thirteen with transplantations.
For the first time, DNA polymerase in a postembryonic insect has been purified and characterized. This enzyme from mosquito larvae was purified 1700-fold and was free of deoxyribonuclease and protease activities, which hindered previous investigations of insect polymerases. The enzyme had a molecular weight of 132,000 by gen filtration and  aggregated to higher molecular weights when concentrated. With an activated DNA template, the pH optimum was 7.2 in phosphate buffer, and the Mg2+ concentration optimum was 5 to 10 mM. Polymerase activity was inhibited by the antisulfhydryl reagents, N-ethylmaleimide and p-mercuribenzoate, and by KCl. These properties indicate that the mosquito enzyme resembles mammalian alpha-polymerase but differs in its lack of inhibition to low ethanol concentrations. There was no evidence of a beta-polymerase form in the mosquito.
The effects of various sugars and sugar derivatives on flavinogenesis were examined using non-growing cells of a high flavinogenic mold, Ashbya gossypii. Glucose, fructose and galactose were found to be the most stimulative. Glycerol and glucono-delta-lactone were less stimulative; next in order were n-propanol, n-butanol, glycols and butanediols, which were likewise effective; acetate, lactate and pyruvate were slightly stimulative. In contrast, ribose, xylose, arabinose, ribitol, citrate, succinate, oxaloacetate, glyoxylate and malate were rather inhibitory, in additions at 1.0%. Among these compounds, ethanol (1%) greatly stimulated  riboflavin formation. Maximum flavinogenesis with the above stimulants was attained by the additions of 1% ethanol, 1.25--3.0% glucose, 1.25% glycerol, 4.0--6.0% propane and butanediols, 1.0% pyruvate and 0.9% acetate after 37 hr incubation, respectively. These compounds inhibited flavinogenesis with increasing concentrations above their optimum concentrations. The stimulation effect of ethanol far exceeded those of other stimulants but ethanol had almost no effect on growth and pH values during incubation. With the addition of ethanol (1%) during incubation, maximum formation (1,776 microgram/g wet mycelia) of riboflavin was achieved when added at the start of incubation and the most effective utilization was observed when added at the logarithmic phase of flavinogenesis, although the maximum formation of riboflavin in the latter case was much lower than in the former case. The relation of sugar metabolism, especially ethanol metabolism, to flavinogenesis was discussed with the flavinogenic activities of these additives.
It was not possible to produce the wasting disease in newborn mice by administering human leukocytes in Hanks' solution, or suspended in m-ATS or h-ATS. The attempt of the authors to produce immunosuppression by the administration of m-ATS started at newborn age-as a result of which the human immunocompetent cells would have produced serious GVH reaction-resulted only in a trend of GVH. The authors used only body weight measuring for detecting the GVH reaction. More sensitive parameters will be employed in their experiments in progress.
Serial Human Chorionic Somatomammotropin (HCS) levels were measured during the last 10 weeks of pregnancy in 57 patients (375 samples). There was a gradual rise from 5.6 microgram/ml at the 30th week to microgram/ml at the 40th week, with a plateau during the last 4 weeks of pregnancy. No correlation could be found of HCS levels with parity, maternal age, maternal height, maternal weight, foetal weight and foetal sex. A weak but significant relationship was found between HCS and plasma oestriol (r = 2.4, p less than 0.001).
To study whether sodium bicarbonate given in cardiopulmonary resuscitation may produce life-threatening hyperosmolality or hypernatremia, arterial blood was analysed for blood gas, alcohol, blood urea nitrogen, electrolyte and osmolality. The blood was drawn after resuscitation in successful cases, and while effective massage and ventilation were being applied in unsuccessful resuscitations. Seven of the 17 resuscitations were successful. Serum sodium concentrations ranged from 135 to 154 with one exception and did not correlate with the amount of sodium bicarbonate administered. Arterial pH ranged from 6.38 to 7.71; only one patient had metabolic alkalosis. Serum osmolality ranged from 301 to 407. The data suggests a net increase in osmolality of 6 mOsm/50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate.
Results from analyses of beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) and phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1;EC 3.1.3.2) activities indicated that presence of a Trichoderma isolate reduced development of Phytophthora cinnamomi. It was also observed that P. cinnamomi was more competitive in coinoculated cultures than in cultures where Trichoderma was added on day 3. Analysis of trehalase (EC 3.2.1.28) activity indicated that Trichoderma either utilized portions of the P. cinnamomi mycelium as substrate or the action of P. cinnamomi released additional nutrients not normally available to Trichoderma. Ther stronger Trichoderma isolate was T. harzianum.
Oxygen equilibrium curves of 48 healthy adult subjects have been measured by the method of Rossi-Bernardi et al. (Clin. Chem. 21: 1747, 1975), in which H2O2 is gradually added to a sample of deoxygenated blood that contains an excess of catalase. The mean P50 for nonsmokers was 26.9 Torr and the distribution of values was slightly skewed to the right (range 24.2--29.9 Torr). The method differs from others previously available in that pH, PCO2, and HCO3-- are constant during oxygenation. The system for control of the experiment and data collection and processing has been automated by the use of a microprocessor so that the equilibrium curve can be obtained quickly, reproducibly, and relatively simply. With the aid of a digital computer, the parameters of the generalized Adair equation can also be estimated.
A double-blind comparison of 2 and 3 mg oral doses of carbuterol, a beta sympathomimetic drug with preferential selectivity for bronchial smooth muscle, was made with 25 and 35 mg doses of ephedrine sulfate over a six-month period in 26 patients with bronchial asthma. Spirometry was done before and three hours after administration of 3 mg of carbuterol or 35 mg of ephedrine sulfate at intervals of two weeks and one, four and six months. The data suggest a cumulative improvement in pulmonary function status with continued oral carbuterol use over the six-month period. However, the clinical effectiveness of the drug on pulmonary function was not clearly distinguishable from that of ephedrine in the present study.
The protective effects of pentobarbitone, hydroxydione and diazepam against acute and chronic toxicity of high-pressure oxygen (HPO) were studied in rats. During exposure to hyperbaric oxygen body temperature was measured and ECG as well as EMG tracings from the diaphragm were obtained. Long term observations of animals after the exposure to HPO were conducted. Pentobarbitone and hydroxydione reduced the manifestations of acute toxicity but increased those of chronic toxicity. Diazepam reduced the manifestations of acute toxicity and seemed to counteract those of chronic toxicity. Lowering of body temperature of the animals which occurred during exposure to HPO was probably connected with manifestations of chronic toxicity. Observation of the cardiorespiratory functions suggested a possible connection between their disturbances and an onset of seizures and development of oxygen-induced paralysis.
Bovine chromaffin granules were lysed and their membranes resealed to give osmotically sensitive 'ghosts'. These swell in the presence of salts and MgATP. It is shown that this is due to proton entry accompanied by anions. The rate of swelling depends on the anion present, but swelling is not limited to media containing permeant anions. It is quite marked in solutions of sulphates, phosphates and acetates. It is not uncoupler-sensitive, suggesting that at least one component of swelling is due to coupled proton and anion entry (non-electrogenic proton translocation). Direct measurements of transmembrane pH and potential gradients generated in the presence of MgATP shows that these are rapidly established in sucrose media, and are rather little affected by the presence of salts. They contribute roughly equally to the total protonmotive force. The potential gradient is establihsed very rapidly, but the pH gradient is generated over several minutes. The gradients are not completely dissipated by uncoupler, and it is shown that, in media containing sulphate but no permeant anion, sulphate can be taken up by the 'ghosts'. There thus appear to be two mechanisms of proton translocation across the membrane, both dependent on ATP hydrolysis: an electrogenic transfer of protons, and proton movement linked to an anion transporter of broad specificity.
Urinary excretion of lactate dehydrogenase, hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, alkaline phosphatase, arylsulphatase A, alpha-glucosidase, beta-galactosidase, trehalase, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, beta-glucuronidase, and leucinearylamidase was studies in a carefully selected group of 100 healthy subjects, 50 women and 50 men. Enzyme activities were assayed in 3-h morning samples after gel filtration of the urine. Activities were related to  time volume, and to urinary creatinine concentration. Several transforming functions had to be applied to enzyme output data to obtain an approximation to gaussian frequency distribution. Men showed a significantly higher excretion of gamma-glutamyltransferase, alpha-glucosidase, trehalase, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase,beta-glucuronidase, and leucine arylamidase activity than did women if enzyme activity was related to urinary time volume. Women  excreted more lactate dehydrogenase, hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, alkaline phosphatase, alpha-glucosidase, trehalase, and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity than did men, if urinary creatinine was used as the basis of reference. Reference intervals were calculated as 2.5 and 97.5 percentiles for both sexes.
A comparison is described between the activity of the melanocyte-stimulating hormone release inhibiting factor (MIF) and those of five synthetic tripeptide analogues of MIF. The comparison was based upon the ability of the compounds to potentiate the behavioral effects of L-dopa in mide and to antagonize fluphenazine-induced catalepsy in rats. Three of the tripeptides potentiated L-dopa in a manner similar to that of MIF. All of the synthetic analogues antagonized fluphenazine after a single dose although their potency and their duration of action differed. MIF was active in the latter test only following chronic administration. The possible mechanism of action and the potential clinical applicability of the tripeptides are briefly discussed.
1. The effect of K+, Na+, Mg2+ and pH upon the rate of aequorin utilization has been investigated in the presence of Ca2+. 2. The aequorin light emission in a medium simulating the in vivo cationic conditions for barnacle muscle fibres indicates that two Ca2+ are apparently involved in this process for free calcium concentrations higher than approx. 10(-5) M. However, for free calcium concentrations lower than 10(-6) M, the intensity of light emitted by aequorin shows a steeper dependency upon [Ca2+] than the square low relationship, indicating that a third Ca2+ should be involved in the process of aequorin light emission, as it has been previously predicted (Moisescu, D.G., Ashley, C.C. and Campbell, A.K. (1975) Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 396, 133-140). 3. The inhibitory effect of physiologically occurring cations upon the aequorin light emission can be explained by the cooperative action of two cations, competing with Ca2+ for the reactive sites on aequorin. 4. At a given concentration, Na2+ was found to have a stronger inhibitory effect upon the aequoring light emission than K+. 5. The experiments indicate a strong interaction between Na+ and K+ in this inhibitory process, since for a given total concentration of monovalent cations, a mixture containing both Na+ and K+ has a larger inhibitory effect on the aequorin light response than solutions containing either Na+ or K+ alone. 6. All other interactions between K+, Na+, H+ and Mg2+ appear to be weak. 7. The reaction schemes used for the explanation of these and other published results on aequorin (Moisescu, D.G., Ashley, C.C. and Campbell, A.K. (1975) Biochim. Biophys, Acta 396, 133-140 and Blinks, J.R. (1973) Eur. J. Cardiol. 1, 135-142) are described, and the 'absolute' binding constants of all physiologically occurring cations for aequorin have been determined. 8. Based on these parameters one can make accurate quantitative predictions for the aequoring light response under a variety of ionic conditions, and this suggests that it is possible to determine absolute free calcium concentrations providing that the ionic composition of the solutions is known, and that the relative rate of aequorin utilization is higher than 0.005.
Groups of volunteers given intramuscularly 5 or 6.5 dex or perorally 6.5 dex newborn mouse icLD50 of the plaquesegregated "14" clone of the Langat E5 virus strain (tick-borne encephalitis comples) were followed for periods of 12 and 24-27 months. Circulating specific virus neutralizing antibodies persisted in them in the absence of apparent reaction as evidenced by clinical, electroencephalographic and cerebrospinal fluid findings.
Concentrations of carbromal, carbromide and bromisoval are determined in blood, urine, brain, kidney and muscle taken at autopsy from 41 fatal cases after overdosage of bromureides. In addition values of total bromine in blood are presented. Contents of total bromine can only lead to the deduction that a chronical abuse of bromureides is existent or not. Concentrations of bromureides and carbromide show a wide range according to the different time between taking the drug and death particularly in cases of pure carbromal intoxications which sometimes cause death after several days. In such cases quantitative determination of carbromide, a pharmacologically active metabolite of carbromal, is the only way to prove an acute carbromal intoxication. Especially in cases of additional foreign substances death may occur in early the phase of poisoning. Bromureides decompose post mortem by putrefaction a high degree so that the condition of the cadaver is important. Brain tissue is the most usable material for examination but other organs, particularly muscle and kidney, can be analysed with success. For differential diagnosis fatal cases are presented which were not caused by drug intake.
In the study discussed below, we assessed the myocardial protection provided by our method of selective hypothermic coronary perfusion. Using arterial and coronary venous blood samples, the following biochemical aspects of myocardial metabolism were calculated: 1) coronary arteriovenous (A-V) pH difference, 2) O2 difference, 3) CO2 difference, 4) respiratory quotient, 5) coronary A-V pyruvate difference, 6) lactate difference, 7) cardiac excess lactate, and 8) redox potential difference. Results indicate that, during coronary perfusion performed according to out method, metabolic changes are minimal and easily reversible shortly after coronary perfusion is terminated.
The authors hold their case reported in this paper interesting for the following reasons: in several minutes two shots were fired by intention of suicide. Two entrance openings were found that had the characteristics of shots fired within close range, but no exit openings were to be seen. Considering the entrance openings, the bilateral fracture of the atlas and a comminuted unilateral fracture of the axis and spotting the jammed missiles inside the tunnel, one must deduce that the missiles went by vital structures without severing them.
1 The effects of intravenously infused phenylephrine and isoprenaline upon the cardiovascular system of the rat anaesthetized with pentobarbitone, have been investigated.2 Phenylephrine produces a dose-dependent rise in mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) that is due mainly to an increase in total peripheral vascular resistance (TPR), though at all doses tested cardiac output was invariably raised.3 The increase in cardiac output was due in each instance to an increase in stroke volume, heart rate being unchanged. This increase in cardiac output is probably brought about by effects of phenylephrine on the capacitance vessels rather than by an effect on the heart.4 Evidence is presented to show that the effects of phenylephrine are mediated largely by alpha-adrenoceptors, but that beta-adrenoceptors which affect TPR are also stimulated by the amine.5 Isoprenaline produces a dose-dependent fall in MABP that is due entirely to a fall in TPR since the cardiac output increases.6 Unlike phenylephrine, the increase in cardiac output obtained with isoprenaline was achieved by an increase in heart rate while stroke volume remained close to control values. It is contended that the augmented venous return required for the elevated cardiac output results in this case mainly from the isoprenaline-induced fall in TPR which enhances transfer of blood from arteries to the veins.7 Evidence is presented to show that the effects of isoprenaline are mediated mainly by beta-adrenoceptors.8 Under the present experimental conditions the adrenoceptor-mediated cardiovascular changes are little modified reflexly by the arterial baroreceptors.
The rat olfactory bulb was studied with the Falck-Hillarp formaldehyde fluorescence technique, including recent modifications, autoradiography and electron microscopic cytochemistry (permanganate fixation). Some periglomerular cells and few superficial tufted cells take up and accumulate catecholamines and precursors. They probably represent dopamine cells. In the glomeruli, probable 5-hydroxy-tryptamine nerve terminals could be identified. In the granular and external plexiform layers, noradrenaline axon terminals were present. At the ultrastructural level, monoamine boutons were in synaptic contact with dendritic spines of granule cells and in the glomeruli, probable 5-hydroxytryptamine boutons formed synapses with periglomerular cell dendrites. Therefore, monoamine afferents to the bulb may exert their influence via interneurons.
A double-blind, vehicle control, parallel clinical trial evaluated the effectiveness and safety of the local application of flunisolide, a potent new topical steroid, in the treatment of ragweed hay fever. Fifty patients with well-defined, poorly controlled ragweed allergy were studied during the 1974 ragweed season. Analysis of the data showed that the active drug group had a significant decrease in individual symptoms of sneezing, nasal stuffiness, and nasal secretions, compared with the placebo group. Antihistamine usage was statistically decreased in the active drug over placebo group. There was no evidence of adrenal suppression. This study indicates that intranasal administration of flunisolide in adult patients is both efficacious and safe in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis.
1 The effects of various narcotic analgesics on the uptake and release of labelled 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in brain and spinal cord synaptosomes were investigated.2 Methadone was most active in inhibiting 5-HT uptake (IC(50) 2.5 x 10(-7) M). Levorphanol also inhibited 5-HT uptake to a large extent (IC(50) 8.8 x 10(-7) M) while dextrophan, pethidine and pentazocine showed much less activity. Etorphine and morphine had virtually no such activity, with IC(50)S higher than 10(-4) and 10(-3) M respectively.3 The same order of potency as ;5-HT releasers' was found when radioactivity was measured in [(3)H]-5-HT preloaded synaptosomal pellets incubated for 20 min with the various narcotics. Methadone, like chlorimipramine, showed a significant effect at a concentration of 10(-7) M while morphine, at a concentration of 10(-4) M, had no effect.4 When 5-HT release was studied by a perfusion technique, which largely prevents reuptake of the released amine, only fenfluramine, an anorectic agent proposed as a 5-HT releaser, significantly increased spontaneous 5-HT release. These data suggest that the apparent 5-HT release induced by various narcotics in traditional incubation techniques may largely depend on their ability to interfere with neurotransmitter reuptake mechanisms.5 The effects of the various narcotics on 5-HT uptake have no relationship to their relative potency as analgesics in the rat. In the light of their poor effectiveness as 5-HT releasers, it can be concluded that mechanisms other than 5-HT uptake inhibition and release are probably involved in the analgesic effects of these compounds in intact animals.
Nonactivated papain was treated with N-bromosuccinimide at pH 4.75. The N-bromosuccinimide-modified enzyme was characterized by (1) the change in absorbance at 280 nm, (2) amino acid analysis, (3) separate chemical determinations of tryptophan and tyrosine (4) difference spectroscopy, and (5) an N-terminal residue determination. It is concluded that N-bromosuccinimide in sevenfold molar excess oxidizes one tryptophan and two to three tyrosine residues per molecule of nonactivated papain, without causing peptide chain cleavage. Kinetic studies with several substrates and competitive peptide inhibitors were performed at pH6 using the N-bromosuccinimide-modified papain. In addition, the kinetics of the modified enzyme with the substrate alpha-N-benzoyl-L-arginine ethl ester were studied in the region of pH 3.5-9.0. All substrates (and inhibitors) test, with the exception of alpha-N-benzyoyl-L-arginine p-nitroanilide, displayed approximately a two fold decrease in both kcat and Km (or Ki), relative to the native enzyme. It is concluded that the key tryptophan residue which is probably Trp-177.
A system has been developed for the quantitative measurment of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity in tissue sections. An obstacle to the histochemical study of this enzyme has been the fact that the substrate, gylceraldehyde 3-phosphate, is very unstable. In the present system a stable compound, fructose 1, 6-diphosphate, is used as the primary substrate and the demonsatration of the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity depends on the conversion of this compound into the specific substrate by the aldolase present in the tissue. The characteristics of the dehydrogenase activity resulting from the addition of fructose 1, 6-diphosphate, resemble closely the known properties of purified glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Use of polyvinyl alcohol in the reaction medium prevents release of enzymes from the sections, as occurs in aqueous media. Although in this study intrinsic aldolase activity was found to be adequate for the rapid conversion of fructose  1, 6-diphosphate into the specific substrate for the dehydrogenase, the use of exogenous aldolase may be of particular advantage in assessing the intergrity of the Embden-Meyerhof pathway.
beta-D-Galactosidase (EC 3.2.1.23) was extracted from Streptococcus thermophilus grown in deproteinized cheese whey. Cultural conditions optimum for maximum enzyme production were pH 7.0, 40 degrees C, and 24 h. Proteose peptone (2.0%, wt/vol) and corn steep liquor (2.8%, wt/vol) were highly stimulatory, increasing the enzyme units available in their absence from 660 U/liter of medium to 18,200 and 10,000 U/liter of medium, respectively, in their presence. There was an insignificant increase in the production of enzyme in the presence of added inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus sources. Enzymatic hydrolysis for recuction of lactose content in aqueous solution and in skim milk was studied.
During adipose tissue development changes in lipoprotein lipase activity per adipocyte precede significant changes in fat cell size. Lipoprotein lipase activity per adipocyte increases fourfold from the second to seventh postnatal week. Furthermore, when isolated adipocytes and stromal--vascular cells are prepared by collagenase digestion of adipose tissue, there is a progressive shift in enzyme activity during development from the stromal-vascular compartment to the adipocyte fraction. The data support the concept that during normal development a "bed" of preadipocytes is synthesized during the suckling period. The data further suggest a regulatory role for lipoprotein lipase in the control of "lipid-filling" during early postnatal development.
An extracellular protease has been purified from cultures of Pseudomonas fluorescens. It is a metalloenzyme with a molecular weight of 37,000 +/- 3,700, able to digest casein, hemoglobin and gelatine.
Soluble arylsulfatase (EC 3.1.6.1) is present in the body fluids of man in the form of two isoenzymes, arylsulfatase A and B, which reportedly are useful biochemical markers for certain types of malignancy. However, rapid assay of the individual isoenzymes is extremely difficult; procedures based on differential inhibition or activation of the isoenzymes in a mixture yield only semiquantitative results. A feature of these isoenzymes is their inhibition by some common anions (notably phosphate) at physiologic concentrations. The isoenzymes can be separated by anion-exchange chromatography, the B isoenzyme being eluted in the void volume and the A isoenzyme and the anionic inhibitors retarded. Lead is used to sequester phosphate, enabling measurement of A in the salt-eluted fraction. Using this technique, we have found significant elevations of B in the sera of patients with colorectal cancer. The potential of rapid, chromatographic separation coupled with continuous monitoring for arylsulfatase activity is discussed.
An important part of the pre-operative preparation of a patient consists in the treatment of his anxiety. One hundred eighty-two patients (varying in age from 17 to 80 years) were sedated for surgery with lorazepam. The evening before intervention, each patient received 1 tablet of lorazepam (2.5 mg) and on the day of operation (90 minutes before induction of the anesthesia), each patient received an I.M. injection of lorazepam and atropine, the dosage being adjusted to body weight. The prior administration of lorazepam usually gives very good results with only slight risk of side-effects and without unhappy recollections of the pre- and post-operative periods. Most of the patients were very calm, being well rested, conscious and capable of conversation. In our experience the sedation of anxious patients with lorazepam would seem to be a very good and safe procedure.
Criteria for diagnosis of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) using skin biopsies were derived from a) general experience with more than 300 human marrow grafts and b) the results of "blind" studies of skin biopsy specimens of patients grafted with either allogeneic or syngeneic marrow. Large doses of cytotoxic drugs and irradiation given before grafting can produce transient skin changes interfering significantly with the diagnosis of GVHD. Artifacts can also cause difficulty. Epidermal cytologic atypia, dyskeratosis, and satellitosis were present both in allografted patients with acute clinical GVHD of multiple systems and in patients given autologous or syngeneic marrow. Due to the marked overlap in histopathologic findings between these two types of skin injury, frequent serial skin biopsies must be combined with all other available clinical and biopsy data to provide reliable diagnosis of acute GVHD in man.
Some investigators have found benzodiazepines effective in the treatment of anxious depression and thus have argued that benzodiazepines were "antidepressants." We reviewed the literature on benzodiazepines in depressive disorders. Comparative studies indicate they are less effective than standard antidepressants in the treatment of several types of depressive illnesses. Although they display definite anxiolytic properties and may elevate mood, they exert limited effect on the core symptoms of endogenous depression. An argument is made that benzodiazepines are primarily anxiolytic rather than antidepressant.
Protein molecules are essential catalysts in life processes and also form much of the substance of living material. Their three dimensional structures determine their biological function. Their biosynthesis is primarily determined by arrays of nucleic acid macromolecules (DNA and RNA), and the amino acid sequences that constitute their long spatially organized peptide-chain molecules reflect at one remove this DNA coding system, and thus record a step-by-step history of some of the viable genetic events (natural or man-controlled) that have created the organism and the breed. Amino acid sequences can be used to trace the progress of controlled breeding in two ways: by extrapolation back from living breeds, and by analysis of ancient protein material. Of the latter, bone or tendon or skin collagens and hair keratins are the most perfectly preserved as molecular structures through 20,000 years and indeed much longer. Amino acid sequences are expensive to determine (collagen has 1052 amino acid residues), and the potential of this palaeobiological information has been as yet little exploited. The first approach has, however, been more explored, in both plants and animals. Several protein systems must be studied in conjunction to reveal the phylogenetic threads in any one breed. As the three dimensional quaternary structure of protein molecules becomes more appreciated in relation to biological function, and as new techniques and procedures are developed, amino acid sequence data can become more informative in our ultimate understanding of early selective breeding.
Conformational aspects of the pressor hormone angiotensin II and 11 of its structural analogues were studied by circular dichroism. Each position of the peptide was singly substituted with an aliphatic residue and alterations of the CD spectra of the resulting analogues in the peptide and aromatic spectral regions (320-250 nm, 250-190 nm) were examined. The spectra of these peptides in 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol solution permit estimation of the relative importance of the various side chains in maintaining the backbone conformation of the hormone. The evolution of the CD spectra in both spectral regions of the peptides in aqueous solution during a titration from pH 1 to pH 12 makes it possible to elucidate further the role of ionizable groups and their interaction with aromatic amino acids such as tyrosine. The results obtained indicate that substitutions in aspartic acid 1, proline 7, and phenylalanine 8 of angiotensin II entail changes in the backbone conformation. On the other hand, the side chains of valine 3, isoleucine 5, and the biologically essential histidine 6 serve mainly to correctly align the phenolic ring of tyrosine in position 4.
Infusions of fructose or sorbitol are used commonly in parenteral nutrition and may cause lactic acidosis. A case is reported in whom blood lactate concentration was monitored frequently over a 5-day period during intravenous feeding with a sorbitol-ethanol-amino acid mixture. During the first five infusions blood lactate rose only moderately, but with the final infusion lactate rose to 11-1 mmol/l and the patient had a severe metabolic acidosis. In retrospect the patient had shown deterioration in renal and hepatic function tests during the preceding 24 hr. On terminating the infusions the blood lactate concentration fell rapidly. It is suggested that great care should be exercised when using such infusions in ill patients and acid base status and renal and hepatic function should be monitored frequently.
The present study explains for the previous findings that oxotremorine increases and sodium pentobarbitone decreases the initial brain uptake of intravenously injected radioactive choline (3H-Ch). The effects are explained by haemodynamic changes since a corresponding increase and decrease in the plasma concentrations of 3H-Ch were found. This is important to know when 3H-Ch is used for estimation of aceytlcholine turnover in the brain. The drugs did not affect the distribution of radioactivity (3H) between plasma and erythrocytes.
Catalytic amounts of bovine beta-trypsin, bovine alpha-chymotrypsin and porcine plasmin establish a true thermodynamic equilibrium between virgin (I) (reactive site Lys15-Ala16 peptide bond intact) and modified (I) (this bond hydrolyzed) bovine trypsin/kallikrein inhibitor (Kunitz). The very slow reaction rates for attaining equilibrium are pH-dependent and differ for different enzymes. Optimal rates are for beta-trypsin at pH 3.75, for alpha-chymotrypsin at pH 5.5, and for plasmin at pH 5.0. Under conditions of optimum pH the equilibrium is reached with the highest rate by plasmin. In 10(-5)M inhibitor solutions the equilibrium concentrations of virgin and modified inhibitor are established by plasmin after almost 300 days starting from either pure virgin or pure modified inhibitor. Thus, the hydrolysis constant KHyd = [I]/[I] is determined to be 0.33 at pH 5.0. In spite of many unsuccessful attempts, this demonstrates that the reactive site peptide bond Lys15-Ala16 in the bovine trypsin inhibitor (Kunitz) can be hydrolyzed by catalytic amounts of endopeptidase. It further confirms that the hydrolyzed Lys15-Ala16 peptide bond in modified inhibitor is subject to thermodynamic control resynthesis.
The acid--forming, acid--neutralizing functions of the stomach, morphological state of its walls and level of histamine in the blood were studied in control rats and in rats subjected to continuous histamine administration. In the latter, intensive elevation of intragastric acidity in empty stomach, an increase in the histamine contents in the blood, and distrophic processes in the wall of stomach occurred. The functional--morphological data obtained suggest remarkable adaptational abilities of the stomach.
A quantitative gas liquid chromatographic method for the determination of serum levels of perazine (10-[3'-(1''-methyl-4''-piperazinyl)-propyl]-phenothiazine) is described. Perazine is used as a neuroleptic drug. The main problem consists in optimizing the chromatographic system. A sensitivity of appr. 60--150 nmol/1 (20--50 microgram/1) serum is achieved. Examples of optimization, analyses with patient samples, and the reproducibility of the results are presented.
The sixth lumbar (L-6) ganglion has been used to study the central regulation of peripheral sympathetic neuron development. During post-natal ontogeny, tyrosine hydroxylase [tyrosine 3-monooxygenase, L-tyrosine, tetrahydropteridine: oxygen oxidoreductase (3-hydroxylating), EC 1.14.16.2] activity increased 60-fold, while total protein rose 10-fold in the ganglion. Transection of the spinal cord at the fifth thoracic (T-5) segment in neonatal rats prevented the normal developmental increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity of the L-6 ganglion. However, spinal transection did not alter the ontogeny of tyrosine hydroxylase in the superior cervical ganglion, which derives its innervation from spinal segments rostral to the surgical lesion. Thus, spinal transection interfered with the maturation of sympathetic neurons distal to, but not proximal to, the lesion. The effect of transection on the L-6 ganglion persisted for at least one month, the longest time tested. Our observations suggest that trans-synaptic regulation of adrenergic maturation in the periphery is governed by suprasegmental mechanisms in the central nervous system.
Lymphocytes of young and old donors are stimulated by phytohemagglutinin (PHA). The 32P-incorporation into the histones which occurs in the early phase after PHA-stimulation is determined. In lymphocytes of old persons the 32P-incorporation in the histones is diminished by about 50% with respect to the cells of young donors. Furthermore, it could be shown that in the histones prepared from old cells the amount of H1 is much increased. It is postulated that, in old age, the other 4 histones are poorly extractable.
The characteristics and localization of a cholesterol ester hydrolase enzyme in homogenates of whole testis and in isolated seminiferous tubules and interstitial cells of mature rats have been investigated. Hydrolysis of cholesteryl [1(-14)C]oleate occurred at an optimum pH of 7.0, was linearly related to time up to 5--6 h of incubation and increased linearly up to 0.25 mg protein/incubation. Hydrolytic activity was inhibited by increasing the incubation temperature from 29 to 41 degrees C and by sonication. Cholesterol ester hydrolase activity/mg protein was three times greater in homogenates of seminiferous tubules than in interstitial cells. Cholesterol ester hydrolase may function to provide precursors for use in seminiferous tubular steroid hormone biosynthesis or germ cell maturation.
The enzyme alkaline phosphatase (AP) (EC 3.1.3.1) in three different calcification areas was studied by means of a spectrophotometric micro method using p-nitrophenylphosphate as a substrate. Rat maxillary incisor odontoblasts and enamel organ from the zones of matrix formation and maturation and tissue from rabbit metatarsal cartilage were allowed to react with the substrate in glycine-NaOH buffer at room temperature. The reaction was found to be linear for a minimum of 20 min. The pH optima for AP from these tissues were in the pH range of 10.0-10.3. In order to compare AP from the four calcification areas different parameters were studied. Heating at 56 degrees C or 60 degrees C for varying times revealed that the enzymes were almost completely inactivated after 10 min. Mg2+ ions activated the enzymes by about 25% at concentrations of 2.5 mM (enamel organ 1.25 mM); while only higher concentrations of Mg2+ had an inactivating effect, Ca2+ and PO3-4 ions were inactivating at varying concentrations. F- ions showed no effect on AP activity at concentrations below 250 mM (enamel organ 125 mM) but caused inactivation of the enzymes at about 50% at 1 M. EDTA was found to be a very effective AP inactivator at concentrations above 0.06 mM, whereas urea did not noticeably affect the enzyme reactions at concentrations below 1 M. At higher concentrations, inactivation was observed. In order to determine AP localization in the epiphyseal plate successive 40-mum-thick, freeze-sectioned slices were analyzed. The activity was highest nearest the zone of cartilage calcification and decreased towards the reserve cell zone. It was concluded that the same AP isoenzyme is present in these quite different calcification loci.
The early receptor potential (ERP) was recorded intracellularly from Limulus ventral photoreceptors. The ERP in cells dissected under red light was altered by exhaustive illumination. No recovery to the original wafeform was observed, even after 1 h in the dark. The ERP waveform could be further altered by chromatic adaptation or by changes in pH. The results indicate that at pH 7.8 there are two interconvertible pigment states with only slightly different lambdamax, whereas at pH 9.6 there are two interconvertible states with very different lambdamax. Under all conditions studied the ERPs were almost identical with those previously obtained in squid retinas. This strongly suggests that light converts Limulus rhodopsin to a stable photoequilibrium mixture of rhodopsin to a stable photoequilibrium mixture of rhodopsin and metarhodopsin and that, as in squid, the lambdamax of metarhodopsin depends on pH. This conversion at pH 7.8 is associated with a small (0.7 log unit) decrease in the maximum sensitivity of the late receptor potential. Thus the component of adaptation linked to changes in rhodopsin concentration is unimportant in comparison to the "neural" component.
We randomized 100 critically ill patients at risk of developing acute gastrointestinal ulceration and bleeding into two groups. One (51 patients) received antacid prophylaxis, and the other (49 patients) received no specific form of prophylaxis. Hourly antacid titration kept the pH of the gastric contents above 3.5. Two of the 51 patients who received antacid prophylaxis and gastrointestinal bleeding. Twelve of the 49 control patients bled (P less than 0.005). Of the 12 patients in the control group who bled, seven were placed on antacid medication, and all seven apparently stopped bleeding. Analysis of all the patients showed that an increasing prevalence of respiratory, failure, sepsis, peritonitis, jaundice, renal failure and hypotension was correlated with a greater frequency of bleeding. No patients required operative treatment to control bleeding. These data indicate that the occurrence of acute gastrointestinal bleeding in critically ill patients can be reduced by antacid titration.
p-Hydroxyamphetamine (PHA) and p-hydroxybenzoic acid (PHBA) have been isolated by gas-liquid chromatography (GC) as urinary metabolites of p-methoxyamphetamine (PMA) in dogs and rhesus monkeys. The amounts of PMA excreted unchanged in the total 24-hr urine samples in dogs and monkeys were 26% and 3%, respectively, of the total administered doses. The amounts of the pharmacologically active metabolite PHA excreted in 24-hr urine samples were 13% in the dog and 44% in the monkey. In the dog, 72% of the PHA was present as free (unconjugated) PHA, whereas in the monkey the amount of PHA present in the free form was only 14%.
Succinylated cyclodextrin glycosyltransferase (EC 3.2.1.19) of an alkalophilic Bacillus sp. was adsorbed on a vinylpyridine copolymer. The enzyme had about 25% of the activity of soluble enzyme added. No increase of pH or thermal stability of the enzyme was observed by the adsorption, whereas optimum temperature for the enzyme action was shifted from 50 to 55 degrees C. The enzyme converted starch to cyclodextrine without significant loss of activity under the conditions of 4 times reusing of 6 hr conversion by the batch system or 2 weeks continuous reaction by the column system at 55 degrees C and pH 8.0. About 46% of the potato starch solution [15% (w/v)] was converted to cyclodextrins by the enzyme, and 52% was converted by the simultaneous action of the enzyme and alkaline pullulanase of alkalophilic Bacillus sp. (No. 202-1). These values were almost the same as those obtained by the soluble enzyme or enzymes system.
In the course of preparing aryl azide derivatives for use as photoprobes, we have observed significant light sensitivity in the precursor aryl diazonium compounds. The photosensitive properties of this class of compounds are of interest since they will seek out cationic binding sites in biological targets, and can be employed to inhibit complementary targets at acid pH. The relationship between photolytic change in the structure of diazonium compounds and the corresponding change in function of a biological target are presented. Experiments are described in which the dark and light sensitive properties of a model diazonium compound, diazobenzene sulfonate (DBS), were determined. The ultraviolet spectra were used to evaluate the dark stability and light sensitivity of DBS. Chymotrypsin and trypsin served as functioning targets for further evaluation of the photochemical properties. Both enzymes are stable to the probe in the dark at acid pH. A rapid loss of enzyme activity was observed following flash photolysis of DBS-enzyme solutions. Photolytic incorporation of radioactive DBS into chymotrypsin was observed. Aryl diazonium salts can be employed to probe the availability of complementary sites in biological targets at different acid pH values.
Intraluminal pH in the lower esophagus has been recorded during a 3-hr period following a ligh meal and a consecutive 12-hr nocturnal period in 20 patients with typical symptoms and radiological evidence of gastroesophageal reflux and in 10 patients without such signs of reflux. Evidence of acid reflux was obtained in 3 of the patients without reflux during the postcibal period but in only one during the 12-hr nocturnal period. In contrast all except one of the 20 patients who had evidence of reflux showed spells of high acidity both in the postcibal and nocturnal periods. There was no clear correlation between the frequency of paf high acidity in the nocturnal period. Those patients with endoscopic evidence of severe esophagitis showed a significantly longer duration of high esophageal acidity in the nocturnal period. We conclude that nocturnal exposure of the esophageal mucosa to acid is a major factor in the causation of reflux esophagitis.
The abdominal muscle deficiency syndrome ("prune belly syndrome"(, a symptom triad of aplasia of the abdominal wall musculature, malformations of the urinary tract, and cryptorchism, is described from the urologist's point of view, citing nine cases. With modern diagnostic procedures the early detection of the correct diagnosis in the usually very young patients is possible. While the urologic symptomatology is due to the malformations in the urinary tract, the life expectancy depends mainly on the degree of renal function impairment. Combat of infection together with proper operative repairs are the treatments of choice to date. Instrumental procedures should be limited as much as possible. The survival changes following kidney transplantation appear promising.
It becomes increasingly evident that not only chemical but also electrotonic synapses are characteristic feature of the vertebrate brain. Experiments carried out on the isolated perfused central nervous system of lampreys and frogs have shown that in cyclostomes spinal motoneurons receive at least 4 different electrotonic inputs: from giant reticulospinal axons, from smaller descending fibers intrinsic to the cord, from primary afferents and ventral roots. In amphibian motoneurons it is possible to identify 3 electrotonically mediated monosynaptic actions: from primary afferents, recurrent, and reticulospinal. The exact mode of transmission of monosynaptic excitation 1a and supraspinal actions in mammals remains to be elucidated. The trends of evolutionary development of synaptic transmissional processes and synaptic organization in vertebrate nervous system are discussed.
The effect of pH on the Ca2+-binding sites of high and low affinity, located respectively on the outer and inner surfaces of the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane, was investigated using intact and leaky sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles. With the use of intact vesicles, different pH profiles of membrane phosphorylation and rates of nucleoside triphosphate hydrolysis were obtained depending on the assay temperature, on the Ca2+ concentration, and on whether ATP or ITP was used as substrate. The different pH profiles were related to the amount of Ca2+ accumualted by the vesicles, i.e., to different degrees of saturation of the inner, low-affinity Ca2+-binding site. With the use of leaky vesicles, the saturation of the two Ca2+-binding sites could be controlled more precisely since the Ca2+ concentration on both sides of the membrane was equal to the Ca2+ concentration of the assay medium. Using leaky vesicles and measuring the rates of nucleotide hydrolysis, nucleotide-phosphate exchange and membrane phosphorylation by nucleotide as an indication of the degree of saturation of the Ca2+-binding sites, we observed that the affinity of both the high- and low-affinity sites increased three to four orders of magnitude when the pH of the assay medium was increased from 6.1 to 8.65.
As demonstrated on nonanesthetized curare-immobilized spinal cats morphine, promedol and fentanyl failed to alter the amplitude of induced potentials in the ventro-lateral columns of the lumbar spinal cord, evoked by a single or repetitive stimulation of the cutaneous or pelvic nerves. In some experiments the same drugs inhibited the nerurons of the posterior horns of the spinal cord activated by the nociceptive stimulation of the peripheral receptors in intraarterial administration of bradykinin. It is suggested that a spinal component was involved in the action of hypnotic analgetics.
This is a report of a survey of the interprofessional education activities included in 54 physician's assistant and 60 nurse practitioner programs. In a majority of such new health practitioner programs, the importance of interprofessional education as a part of training for team health care delivery has been recognized, and some structured interprofessional activity has been provided. A variety of methods are being used to achieve the objectives of effective team delivery of primary health care, including the mixing of students in both classroom and clinical settings and the inclusion of specific courses on role and professional identity. Seventy percent of physician's assistant students and 38 percent of nurse practitioner students in the programs included in the study have at least one classroom activity shared with another health profession group, most commonly medical students. Only a surprisingly small percentage of programs were involved in any evaluation of their interprofessional activities. In spite of the primary care orientation of new health practitioner programs, less than 40 percent offer clinical experience on a health team in a primary care setting.
A series of 84 patients with unstable angina, treated surgically by grafting procedures between October 1970 and September 1976, have been reviewed. The study indicates that extensive coronary artery disease is common in these patients, and suggests that operation may favourably influence mortality, both immediate and delayed, but does not reduce the risk of myocardial infarction. Eighty per cent of the patients were relieved of angina and able to lead a reasonably normal existence.
The effects of pentobarbital and diazepam were compared in a series of tests in squirrel monkeys; the effects of phenobarbital and flurazepam were compared in a second series. Observations were made of gross behavior and on the ECoG; the latter was analyzed by the spectral density technique. The two barbiturates induced sedation,which was occasionally so deep that the monkeys could not be readily aroused. The benzodiazepines induced sedation in some monkeys, but others showed signs of restlessness. The ECoG showed general slowing with the barbiturates, whereas the benzodiazepines produced mixed fast and slow patterns. Spectral density analysis showed that pentobarbital increased activity at frequencies below 40 Hz, with the largest increases occurring below 8 Hz. Phenobarbital increased activity below 8 Hz, but differed from pentobarbital by decreasing activity above 13 Hz. The benzodiazepines increased activity below 8 Hz, decreased it between 8 and 20 Hz, and increased it between 20 and 50 Hz.
The effects of the acetylated derivative of HC-3 (acetylsecohemicholinium; AcHC-3) have been studied at cholinergic nerve terminals and compared with the effects of the parent compound. AcHC-3 blocked neuromuscular transmission in nerve-muscle preparations; it was shown to be less effective than HC-3 in producing a pre-junctional block in the rat diaphragm but was more effective than HC-3 in eliciting a post-junctional blocking effect in the chick biventer muscle. On the frog rectus abdominis muscle AcHC-3 caused a substantial potentiation of the contractures elicited by acetylcholine but did not by itself cause a contracture of the muscle. AcHC-3 inhibited the synthesis of acetylcholine by cholinergic nerve ending particles and inhibited the uptake of [14C]choline into brain synaptosomal fractions to a similar extent to HC-3. AcHC-3 was shown to be a substrate for cholinesterase enzymes although the rate of hydrolysis was much less than the rate of hydrolysis of acetylcholine. It is concluded that AcHC-3 is effective in inhibiting cholinergic transmission and this action is exerted by the open chain (seco) compound and is not due to the hydrolysis of the AcHC-3 by cholinesterases to form the active HC-3 molecule.
An awareness of the modes of presentation in childhood duodenal ulcer disease is necessary for prompt diagnosis and treatment. Therapy should be based on the rationale of decreasing acid secretion and providing adequate buffering of gastric acid throughout the day. Because of the high incidence of recurrence in children, aggressive diagnosis and treatment of duodenal ulcer are indicated in any child suspected of having the disease.
The total-kidney glomerular filtration rate (GFR) falls when birds are salt loaded. This fall in GFR is caused by glomerular intermittency. The nephrons that stop filtering are small, surface nephrons without loops of Henle. Larger nephrons with loops of Henle in the deeper regions of the kidney continue to filter during salt loading. Microfil casts were made of the renal microvasculature of the desert quail, Lophortyx gambelii, in an attempt to determine at what points intrarenal blood flow is regulated to cause glomerular intermittency. Casts of the renal vasculature were made in quail that were hydrated and in quail that were salt loaded. The results indicate that the small, surface nephrons stop filtering during salt loading because of a vasoconstriction at the level of the afferent arterioles of these nephrons. At the same time, blood flow is maintained to the large nephrons with loops of Henle. Reducing GFR at the expenses of excreting wastes can be viewed as a mechanism to conserve body water during periods of water deprivation.
Mediators of hormone and neurotransmitter action may exert negative control on the accumulation of one another (adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate, or conversely). A model in which one agonist stimulates the formation of two mediators which inhibit each other's accumulation has been simulated. Three types of agonist-receptor interaction, five mechanisms of inhibition, and three types of basal activity have been considered which lead to a set of 45 descriptions of the general cross inhibition model. For these submodels, pattern of the relation of agonist to mediator concentrations at steady state conditions have been defined. Some patterns are complex with mediator curves exhibiting extrema, one a maximum and the other a minimum. The complexity of the pattern depends on the submodel and on the degree of asymmetry between the parameters of each of the mediator pathways (e.g.,affinities for the agonist, strength of the inhibitions, etc.). This simple model can thus account for complex experimental results without requiring the postulation of elaborate molecular models of agonist-receptor interaction. The simulations presented emphasize the necessity of investigating a wide range of agonist concentrations.
The effects of acid--base alterations produced by changing bicarbonate (metabolic type), carbon dioxide tension (respiratory type), or both bicarbonate and carbon dioxide tension (compensated type) on skeletal muscle twitch tension, intracellular pH, and intracellular potassium were studied in vitro. Hemidiaphragm muscles from normal rats and rats fed a potassium-deficient diet were used. Decreasing the extracellular pH by decreasing bicarbonate or increasing CO2 in the bathing fluid produced a decrease in intracellular pH, intracellular K+, and muscle twitch tension. However, at a constant extracellular pH, an increase in CO2 (compensated by an increase in bicarbonate) produced an increase in intracellular K+ and twitch tension in spite of a decrease in intracellular pH. The effect on twitch tension of the hemidiaphragms showed a rapid onset, was reversible, persisted until the buffer composition was changed, and was independent of synaptic transmission. It is concluded that the twitch tension of the skeletal muscle decrease with a decrease in intracellular K+. The muscle tension also decreases with an increase in the ratio of intracellular and extracellular H+ concentration. However, there is no consistent relationship between muscle tension and extracellular or intracellular pH. The muscle tension of the diaphragms taken from K+-deficient rats is more sensitive to variations in CO2, PH, and bicarbonate concentration of the medium than that of the control rat diaphragms.
A study of the kinetics of cellular proliferation, in the morphologically unrecongizable haemopoietic progenitor cell compartment, as a function of injected CFU-S dose has been carried out in the spleens of lethally X-irradiated mice using 3H-TdR labelling. Amplification in this proliferating cell compartment was observed to decline as CFU-S dose increased. The number of divisions in the differentiated line arising from CFU-S up to the first appearance of recognizable erythroid precursors were calculated to be 9-2, 12-5, 15 and 17 for the 2, 0-35, 0-05 and 0-007 femur equivalent doses respectively. The growth of cell populations arising from CFU-S was biphasic, with a rapid initial phase having a doubling time of about 6-3 hr, and a slow phase of doubling time around 1 day. Analysis of the rapid phase by the FLM method gave a cycle time of 5-6 hr, Recognizable labelled erythroid precursors were detected at the same time as, or just after, the change in slope of the growth curve. Significant numbers of proliferating (labelled) granulocytes only appeared in the spleens of animals receiving the higher marrow doses (2 and 0-35 femur). The erythroid to granulocyte ratio was also a decreasing function of marrow dose.
The decrease of sympathetic activity by the beta-blocking drug, as demonstrated by the decreased electric activity of the splanchnic nerve and by the decreased urinary catecholamine reponse to tilt as well as by the decreased levels of plasma dopamine beta-hydroxylase exists not only in hypertension with elevated PRA but also in hypertension with normal or low PRA. In these latter cases the antihypertensive effect is better explained by the decrease in the sympathetic nervous system activity than by the decrease of PRA. This effect seems to be indirect and probably, as suggested by Lewis, as a result of damping sensory input to the central nervous system from the heart, whose capacity to respond to exercice and stress is blunted by beta-adreno-receptor blockade.
Addition of individual amino acids to a Trypticase-yeast extract-hemin medium affected growth rates and final yields of an asaccharolytic strain and a saccharolytic strain of Bacteroides melaninogenicus. L-Aspartate or L-asparagine produced maximal growth enhancement for both strains. L-[14C]aspartate was fermented by resting cells of the asaccharolytic strain. L-Cysteine or L-serine also enhanced growth for the saccharolytic strain. However, growth of the saccharolytic strain was inhibited by L-lysine, L-glutamate, L-glutamine, L-isoleucine, L-leucine, and L-proline; growth of the asaccharolytic strain was inhibited by DL-valine and L-serine. Both strains were inhibited by L-histidine, DL-methionine, L-tryptophan, L-arginine, and glycine.
This is a report of a symposium and training seminar of the "Arbeitsgemeinschaft fr Methodik und Dokumentation in der Psychiatrie" (AMP). Video-recordings of two psychiatric interviews were shown during the seminar and rated by the participants using the AMP-3-Scale (Psychopathology). Aim of the seminar was a rater training and the preparation of an expert standard rating. These videotapes with the corresponding standard ratings will enable the different clinics using the AMP-System to compare their rating behaviour. The process of achieving an expert standard rating is described. The training seminar was followed by a symposium during which a series of lectures was presented on "Standardized Assessment in Psychiatry", The different working groups of the Association reported about their work and future prospects of the Association were discussed.
A calcium activated photoprotein, termed mnemiopsin, which emits bioluminescence upon the addition of calcium ion, has been isolated from the Ctenophore, Memiopsis leidyi, and purified by hollow fiber techniques. The system is similar to aequorin, from the jellyfish Aequorea, except that mnemiopsin can be light-inactivated. Separation of mnemiopsin from the dilute and large volume animal homogenate proved difficult with conventional biochemical techniques. A continuous flow process utilizing large surface area hollow fibers for filtration, concentration, and dialysis was developed which may also be applicable to the purification of other proteins. The resulting mnemiopsin concentrate, after further purification, was judged to be about 90% pure by its gel electrophoretic profile. Estimates by molecular sieve chromatography and SDS gel electrophoresis gave a molecular weight of about 23,000 daltons. A calcium specificity for triggering light emission was studied by comparison of triggering with a variety of cations and anions and by investigating the effects of calcium ionophores and antagonists. The activity of mnemiospin was characterized with respect to pH, temperature and ionic strength. The stability of mnemiopsin activity after exposure to proteases, denaturants, protein group specific reagents, detergents, elevated temperatures and light was determined. Some years ago our laboratory reported that the bioluminescence reaction in the ctenophores which had long eluded definition involved a calcium activated photoprotein similar in many respects to that found in other coelenterates, notably Aequorea. We found, moreover, that the systems differed in that the bioluminescent activity of the isolated protein was lost following exposure to light. The purification and characterization of this biochemical system was undertaken both in our laboratory and by Ward and Seliger. These latter reports provide a detailed and firm foundation for the understanding of the components and mechanisms involved. While many of our results are in agreement with theirs, our approaches, inquiries, and results differed in several significant ways, the description of which forms the basis for this report. In particular, we took a different approach in the purification of the Mnemiopsis photoprotein which in itself is rather a formidable task. The technique was successful and may point the way to other applications where large volume dilute solutions prove cumbersome. Secondly, our study of the effects of salts, proteases, detergents, and other agents indicate that the protein, though sensitive to calcium and visible light inactivation, is relatively resistant to some agents which commonly inactivate proteins.
1. The study of the in vitro accumulation of [3H] chlorpromazine that a state of rapid equilibrium was reached for subcellular particles from cortex, midbrain and hindbrain of rats. 2. This accumulation was not saturable by increasing the concentration of chlorpromazine, and the relationship between accumulation and concentration was not modified by temperature, preincubation with high concentration of unlabelled chlorpromazine or by lowering the fraction concentration. 3. The highest accumulation of radioactivity was seen in the midbrain region and the lowest in the hindbrain. 4. In the cortex and midbrain the membrane fraction showed the highest accumulation. 5. The effect of pH on the accumulation indicated that a significnat rise was seen between pH 8 and 5. 6. This factor could also be explained in terms of solubility of the drug in membranes. 7. Studies on the metabolic fate of the drug during incubation indicated that there was a fairly rapid breakdown during incubation, the highest being seen with mitochondrail fractions and the least with membrane procedures. 9. It is concluded that accumulation of chlorpromazine by subcellular fractions in vitro may be associated with solubility in membranes and that the picture  may be complicated by the presence of breakdown products.
The nurse practitioner and physician's assistant are new health practitioners providing primary health care. When teamed with family physicians, these new health practitioners can extend patient services. Family physicians should be trained to work with new health practitioners effectively. Presented is a model where a nurse practitioner and family practice residents work as co-practitioners in a family practice unit. A nurse practitioner in this role can improve the continuity of the relationship between patient and provider in a family practice residency.
The inhibitory effects of the pyrazine derivative, amiloride, on sodium transport in an amphibian epithelium has been studied as a function of pH. It is concluded that the charged (guanidinium) group interacts with a negatively charged acid grouping in the membrane. Similarities between sodium channels in excitable membranes and epithelia are highlighted.
Quantitative composition of gastro-intestinal-flora was determined in 23 clinically healthy calves and the course of germ spreading was followed up. In comparison with these healthy animals in 25 diarrhoea affected calves at the age of 4 to 17 days there could be observed signigicant differences only in few parts of the gastro-intestinal-tract concerning the quantitative composition of germ flora. Only in 3 animals enterotoxin producing E coli strains could be detected.
During infusion of caerulein, the output of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and biliary alkaline phosphatase is significantly more increased in chronic pancreatitis patients than in normal subjects. The presence of the gall-bladder is necessary to observe this effect of caerulein. It is not related to the discharge of large amounts of both enzymes by the diseases pancreas.
The acute administration of levorphanol, morphine, anileridine, methadone, cyclazocine and pentazocine was found to increase brain levels of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol sulfate (MOPEG-SO4) in rats. Drug-induced increases in brain levels of this norepinephrine metabolite were dose-dependent and peak drug effects generally occurred 1 hr after intraperitoneal injection. Six to 8 hr after opiate agonist or partial agonist administration, MOEG-SO4 levels returned to control values or below. The narcotic effect appeared to be stereospecific, since high doses of d-methadone and dextrorphan produced either no change or only minimal increases in brain MOPEG-SO4 levels when compared with saline-treated controls. The relative potency of the analgesics tested in producing increases in brain MOPEG-SO4 levels appeared to correlate reasonably well with the ability of these drugs to produce other characteristic pharmacological effects. The drug-induced increases in brain MOPEG-SO4 levels were antagonized by naloxone. The rate of disappearance of MOPEG-SO4 from the brains of animals treated with pargyline was not decreased by the opiate agonists or partial agonists tested indicating that these drugs did not inhibit the acid transport process. These results indicate that the production of an increase in brain norepinephrine turnover is a specific component of the pharmacological actions of narcotic analgesics.
The toxicological and pharmacological study of a non depolarizing curariform drug AH 8165 was performed under various conditions of storage, duration and temperature (duration: 1 month 2 years; temperature: 4 degrees C to 70 degrees C). It shows that this drug ought to be kept a low temperature for storage (in the range of + 4 degrees C). In the sam way, this study demonstrates a better stability of this drug when stored lyophilized form instead of a solute. The interest of standardized animal experimentation in studying the activity of a therapeutic substance depending on the duration of storage is shown.
In the previous paper [ramos, S., and Kaback, H.R. (1977), Biochemistry 16 (preceding paper in this issue)], it was demonstrated that Escherichia coli membrane vesicles generate a large electrochemical proton gradient (delta-muH+) under appropriate conditions, and some of the properties of delta-muH+ and its component forces [i.e., the membrane potential (delta psi) and the chemical gradient of protons (deltapH)] were described. In this paper, the relationship between delta-muH+, delta psi, and deltapH and the active transport of specific solutes is examined. Addition of lactose or glucose 6-phosphate to membrane vesicles containing the appropriate transport systems results in partial collapse of deltapH, providing direct evidence for the suggestion that respiratory energy can drive active transport via the pH gradient across the membrane. Titration studies with valinomycin and nigericin lead to the conclusion that, at pH 5.5, there are two general classes of transport systems: those that are driven primarily by delta-muH+ (lactose, proline, serine, glycine, tyrosine, glutamate, leucine, lysine, cysteine, and succinate) and those that are driven primarily by deltapH (glucose 6-phosphate, D-lactate, glucuronate, and gluconate). Importantly, however, it is also demonstrated that at pH 7.5, all of these transport systems are driven by delta psi which comprises the only component of delta-muH+ at this external pH. In addition, the effect of external pH on the steady-state levels of accumulation of different solutes is examined, and it is shown that none of the pH profiles correspond to those observed for delta-muH+, delta psi, or deltapH. Moreover, at external pH values above 6.0-6.5, delta-muH+ is insufficient to account for the concentration gradients established for each substrate unless the stoichiometry between protons and accumulated solutes is greater than unity. The results confirm many facets of the chemiosmotic hypothesis, but they also extend the concept in certain important respects and allow explanations for some earlier observations which seemed to preclude the involvement of chemiosmotic phenomena in active transport.
A stopped-flow pH electrode apparatus was used to investigate the mechanisms underlying slow changes in plasma pH (pHO) after blood leaves the pulmonary capillaries in carbonic anhydrase-inhibited animals. After acetazolamide was administered to an anesthetized dog or cat, arterial blood was withdrawn through the electrode apparatus into a syringe. Syringe movement was then suddenly stopped. Temperature and pHO of the blood in the electrode chamber were monitored both before and after blood withdrawal ceased. After stopping flow, pHO of the blood in the electrode chamber a) rose 0.02 after a dose of about 1 mg/kg acetazolamide; b) did not change after a dose of about 2 mg/kg acetazolamide; and c) fell 0.10 after a dose greater than about 5 mg/kg acetazolamide. With reasonable red cell and plasma carbonic anhydrase activities assumed for each dose level of acetazolamide, a computer model of the reaction and transport processes occurring in blood after gas exchange in the lung yielded predicted time courses of pHo that were in good agreement with the experimental results. The observed slow pHo changes are largely a result of disequilibrium of [H+] between red blood cells and plasma as blood leaves the pulmonary capillaries.
The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-specific glutamate dehydrogenase (NADP-GDH) of Chlorella sorokiniana was purified 260-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity in six steps. Depending on the techniques used, the native enzyme appeared to have a molecular weight of 290,000 or 410,000 and to be composed of five to seven identical subunits with a molecular weight of 58,000. The amino acid composition of this enzyme was shown to differ considerably from that of the NAD-GDH in this organism. The NH2-terminal amino acid was unavailable to dansylation. All six cysteines in the native enzyme were in the free sulfhydryl form. The pH optima for the aminating and deaminating reactions were 7.2 and 9.2, respectively. The Km values for NH4+, alpha-ketoglutarate, NADPH, L-glutamate, and NADP+ were 68, 12, 0.13, and 0.038 mM, respectively. At low substrate concentrations, no cooperativity was seen; however, severe inhibition of enzyme activity was observed at high alpha-ketoglutarate concentrations. Nucleotides did not affect enzyme activity. Antiserum produced in rabbits to the subunits of the enzyme yielded a single precipitin band with the purified enzyme in Ouchterlony double-diffusion analysis. Immunoelectrophoresis was used to confirm the purity of the enzyme and also to quantify the amount of enzyme antigen. These studies indicate that the NADPH-GDH and NAD-GDH isozymes are distinct molecular species in this organism.
The materials mentioned above are reextracted from an ether solution by 2 N sodium hydroxide. The UV extinction of the aqueous layer at 232 nm and 30 degrees C is followed by means of a slave recorder. The original extinction is found by back-extrapolating to the time of re-extraction. It has to be corrected for the "biological matrix" by subtracting the extinction value after complete hydrolysis. Most interfering substances in the ether solution (carboxylic acids, barbiturates) may be removed previously by washing with aqueous buffers (pH 7.0 and 10.5).
There was no significant difference in the blood pressure and heart rate response of hypertensive patients with and without angina to standardised exercise on a treadmill before and after anti-hypertensive treatment. There was no improvement in exercise tolerance in the hypertensive patients with angina treated with bethanidine, debrisoquine or guanethidine despite a reduction of resting and exercise heart rates after treatment. The negative chronotropic effect of these sympatholytic drugs was less than that of oxprenolol or propranolol, but the hypotensive response was greater. Both of these beta-receptor blocking drug produced an an improvement in exercise tolerance in patients with angina either alone or in combination with other hypotensive therapy. The best control of blood pressure and angina was often achieved by a combination of a sympatholytic drug and beta-receptor blocking drug. In hypertensive patients treated for several years, angina at presentation was occassionally reduced by reduction of blood pressure. Later onset of angina appeared to be unrelated to control of hypertension but to be due to coincidental coronary occlusion. There was no evidence that myocardial infarction was precipitated by postural or exercise hypotension although these effects occasionally precipitated angina.
The biosynthesis of the glucuronide and sulphate conjugates of 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylethanol was demonstrated in vitro by using the high-speed supernatant and microsomal fractions of liver respectively. These two conjugates were also produced simultaneously by using the post-mitochondrial fraction of rat, rabbit or guinea-pig liver. In contrast only the glucuronide was synthesized by human liver and only the sulphate by mouse and cat livers. Neither of these conjugates was formed by the kidney or the small or large intestine of the rat. A high sulphate-conjugating activity was observed in mouse kidney; the rate of sulphation of 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylethanol with kidney homogenate and high-speed supernatant preparations was 1.8 times greater than with liver preparations. The sulpho-conjugates of 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylethanol and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-phenylglycol were also formed by enzyme preparations of rabbit adrenal and rat brain; the glycol was the better substrate in the latter system. Mouse brain did not possess any sulphotransferase activity. For the conjugation of 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylethanol by rabbit liver, the Km for UDP-glucuronic acid was 0.22 mM and that for Na2SO4 was 3.45 mM. The sulphotransferase has a greater affinity for 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl-ethanol than has glucuronyltransferase, as indicated by their respective Km values of 0.036 and 1.3 mM. It was concluded that sulphate conjugation of 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylethanol predominates in most species of animals.
Rats eating a diet containing casein hydrolysate (10% wt/wt)(diet 3) instead of whole casein (diet 1) exhibited increased tolerance to nine consecutive daily injections of 15 mg/kg of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The relative nutritional efficiency of diet 3 was significantly higher during 5-FU treatment. Serum albumin levels measured after 5-FU treatment dropped by only 2.7% in diet 3 groups and by 13.5% in diet 1 groups. Serum albumin values for rats on the control diet (Purina lab chow) were comparable to those on diet 1. No 5-FU-related mortality was observed in any of the groups. Intestinal brush border enzymes were determined in a group of rats on diet 1. At the end of 5-FU treatment statistically significant changes were observed: sucrase dropped to 30% of control and leucylnaphthylamide-hydrolyzing activity dropped to 19% of control. The activity of gamma-glutamyltransferase did not change significantly. It is postulated that under these circumstances a mixture with a prevalence of free amino acids (casein hydrolysate) could be more readily absorbed than a corresponding mixture containing a larger proportion of oligopeptides.
The NADPH-dependent enzymic reduction of disulfide bonds in human choriogonadotropin and its two subunits, alpha and beta, was examined with thioredoxin and thioredoxin reductase from Escherichia coli. With 12 muM thioredoxin and 0.1 muM thioredoxin reductase at pH 7 all disulfide bonds in the alpha subunit could be reduced in 15 min. The reduction of disulfide bonds was recorded by a simple spectrophotometric assay at 340 nm, which allowed quantitation of the reduction rate and the number of disulfide bonds reduced. Partial reduction of the alpha subunit with thioredoxin followed by S-carboxymethylation with iodol[2-3H]acetic acid and analysis of tryptic peptides indicated that all S-S bonds in the alpha subunit were surface oriented and equally reactive. The usefulness of thioredoxin reduction of disulfide bonds as a chemical probe of protein structure was shown by the much slower reaction of disulfide bonds in the intact hormone as compared to its two biologically inactive subunits.
A detailed examination of the mechanism of the hydrolysis of phenyl acetates by alpha-chymotrypsin [EC 3.4.21.1] was carried out. The effective deacylation rate constants of some phenyl acetates obtained by titration of the acetyl-enzyme decreased at low substrate concentrations and showed anomalous pH dependences and solvent isotope effects. The transient kinetics of deacylation of the acetyl-enzyme were biphasic. A spectrum and a breakdown rate similar to those of acetylimidazole were observed when the acetyl-enzyme was denaturated with sodium dodecyl sulfate. These results indicate the participation of histidine-acylated enzyme, which woud account for the anomalous phenomena previously found in this system, including a large value of Hammett's rho. The relation between the substrate activation and the two intermediates is discussed.
Survical time of a man immerged in sea water at a mean temperature of 20 degrees C was 65 hours. This remarkable tolerance of a professional diver to hypothermia is attributed to his adapted clothing and safety equipment, and to favourable atmospheric conditions. On the light of this accidental immersion, one must reconsider out of date concepts concerning sea rescue with respect to water temperature, clothing equipment of the ship-wrecked, meterological conditions and circonstances of accident.
The killer character of strain isolated from the main mash of sake brewing which produces a killer substance for sake yeast was transmitted to hybrids of the strain and a standard strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae through a cytoplasmic determinant. The character was eliminated at 41 degrees C by incubation followed by growth at 30 degrees C. The killer strain produced the killer toxin in a growth-associated manner. A preparation of crude killer toxin extract showed first-order inactivation and a linear Arrhenius plot between 25 and 40 degrees C, with an activation of energy of 55.0 kcal/mol. Addition of 1% of synthetic polymer protected the toxin from inactivation by agitation but not by heat. Enhancement of the killer action toward sensitive yeast cells by only the nucleotide adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) was observed after plating on agar medium as well as after incubation in liquid medium. The addition of CaCl2 reversed the enhancing effect of ADP on killing activity. This action of CaCl2 was inhibited by cycloheximide, suggesting that protein synthesis is required for recovery of toxin-induced cells in the presence of CaCl2. Further, CaCl2 overcame the decrease in the intracellular level of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) enhanced by ADP in killer-treated cells and also inhibited leakage of ATP from the cells with immediate response. The mode of killing action is discussed in terms of a transient state of the cells and the action of ADP and CaCl2.
The effect of redox potential was studied on the growth of the following aerobic microorganisms: Candida utilis, Bacillus megaterium, Pseudomonas fluorescens. The action of oxidizing agents (K3Fe(CN)6, KIO3, K2Cr207 and KMnO4) and reducing agents (ascorbic acid, sodium thioglycolate, K4Fe (CN)6 and Na2S2O3) on the growth rate was investigated. K3Fe(CN)6, ascorbic acid, sodium thioglycolate and K4Fe(CN)6 were found to be suitable for buffering the Eh of the medium. The potential could be shifted by 50--200 mV by adding various reducing and oxidizing agents. The rate of growth of C. utilis, Bac. megaterium and Ps. fluorescens did not depend on the potential value.
The conversion of proparathyroid hormone (proparathormone) to parathyroid hormone (parathormone) by subcellular fractions of the bovine parathyroid has been investigated. The identification of the conversion product as parathormone was established by its elution postion during ion exchange chromatography and gel filtration, and by partial amino acid sequence analysis of its NH2-terminal region. Total homogenates and derived subcellular fractions (600 X g pellet, 5,000 X g pellet, 20,000 X g pellet, 190,000 X g pellet, and 190,000 X g supernatant) all catalyzed the conversion of exogenous [3H]- or [14C]prohormone. Over 60% of the converting activity was in the particulate fractions; the 190,000 X g particulate fraction contained the highest specific converting activity. The converting activity appeared to be an integral component of the membranes since it could only be partially removed by extraction with Triton X-100. The production of parathormone by the particulate converting enzyme increased with time and the concentration of enzyme protein. The optimum pH range was between 7 and 9, and the enzyme was inactive below pH 6. Conversion by the particulate enzyme was inhibited by benzamidine or chloroquine, but not by pancreatic trypsin inhibitor, indicating its dissimilarity to trypsin. When a mixture of [14C]proparathormone and [3H]parathormone was used as substrate, the particulate enzyme did not metabolize the hormone despite over 70% conversion of the prohormone to hormone and other peptides. There was a close correlation between the subcellular distribution of converting activity and that of newly formed parathormone found in the membrane fraction. These data suggest that the particulate converting activity is that concerned with the formation of parathormone in vivo.
Blocking H2 receptors with burimamide in the dose used (20 mg/kg) approximately doubles the amount of histamine needed to produce the same effect as seen when H1 antagonists (chlorpheniramine or mepyramine) are used alone. The Kz ratios for chlorpheniramine-chlorpheniramine plus burimamide are 117-204 and for mepyramine-mepyramine phus burimamide are 200-478. H1 and H2 receptors, in the monkey, when stimulated, both cause cardiovascular responses in the same direction.
1. Bovine milk xanthine oxidase (xanthine:oxygen oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.3.2) oxidises 3-hydroxyxanthine slowly to 3-hydroxyuric acid; the 1-methyl derivative of 3-hydroxyxanthine is attacked about twice as fast. 2. The pH optimum for the reaction of 2-hydroxyxanthine is near 5, i.e. the neutral form of this substrate is attacked much faster than the anion. Probably in the "active" form of the latter, the negative charge is located mainly in the imidazole ring, thus inhibiting nucleophilic attack at C-8.
Sterile peritoneal exudates produced in rabbits injected with 1% glycogen contain a phospholipase A activity in a cell-free supernatant fraction that hydrolyzed a synthetic phospholipid (1,2-diacyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-ethanolamine) and phospholipids of autoclaved Escherichia coli. This phospholipase activity (phosphatidylacylhydrolase EC 3.1.1.4) exhibited an apparent bimodal pH optimum (pH 6.0 and pH 7.5) and was Ca(2+)-dependent; Mg(2+) and monovalent cations (Na(+) and K(+)) did not substitute for Ca(2+) in the reaction; EDTA was a potent inhibitor. The phospholipase hydrolyzed 1-[1-(14)C]palmitoyl-2-acyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine to form only radio-active lysophosphatidylethanolamine as the product, indicating that the enzyme had phospholipase A(2) specificity. The phospholipase A(2) was purified 302-fold by two successive chromatographic steps on carboxymethyl Sephadex. Gel filtration (Sephadex G75) of the purified enzyme resulted in a single peak of biological activity with a molecular weight of approximately 14,800. The same estimate of molecular weight was obtained by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, which yielded a single band. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of this fraction at pH 4.3 revealed a single protein band migrating beyond lysozyme, with the dye front, suggesting that this protein was more basic than lysozyme (pI 10.5). The enzymatic and physical-chemical characteristics of this soluble enzyme were remarkably similar to a recently described phospholipase A(2) of rabbit polymorphonuclear leukocytes derived from glycogen-induced peritoneal exudates. The possible origin and physiological role of this soluble enzyme are discussed.
A protocol of chronic antepartum surveillance was initiated at the University of Illinois hospitals in 1973 to assess the impact on perinatal mortality. At the same time, a policy of unselected fetal heart rate (FHR) monitoring was initiated to judge the effect on the intrapartum stillbirth rate. The impact of both programs played a significant role in the decline of perinatal mortality rates for infants weighing more than 1 500 g, from 21.1/1 000 births in 1970--1971 to 14.4/1 000 births in the monitored years 1973 and 1974 (p less than 0.02).
Several experiments conducted by our group over a period of 6 years have shown that nutritional stress, especially protein and/or calorie deprivation, leads to many, often dramatic, changes in the immune responses of mice, rats, and guinea pigs. Chronic protein deprivation (CPD) has been shown to create an enhancing effect on the cell-mediated immune responses of these animals. Humoral responses under CPD conditions were most often found to be depressed, but sometimes were unaffected, depending on the nature of the antigen employed. Chronic protein deprivation, consistent with the pattern just mentioned, improved tumor immunity by depressing production of B-cell blocking factors, and, in at least one instance, resistance to development of mammary adenocarcinoma in C3H mice was associated with evidence of increased numbers of T suppressor cells. Profound nutritional deficits (less than 5% protein per total daily food intake) depressed both cellular and humoral immunity. Early, though temporary, protein deprivation caused a long-term depression of both cellular and humoral immunity also, with the humoral component being the first to recover. Manipulation of protein and calories was found to have a profound effect on certain autoimmune conditions. Diets high in fat and low in protein favored reproduction but shortened the life of NZB mice, whereas diets high in protein and low in fat inhibited development of autoimmunity and prolonged life. Chronic moderate protein restriction permitted NZB mice to maintain their normally waning immunologic functions much longer than mice fed a normal protein intake. Further, the low-protein diet was associated with a delay in development of manifestations of autoimmunity. Decreasing dietary calories by a reduction of fats, carbohydrates, and proteins more than doubled the average life span of (NZB X NZW)F1 mice, a strain prone to early death from autoimmune disease. Histopathologic studies using immunofluorescent microscopy revealed that the development of the renal lesions caused by the deposition of antigen-antibody complexes, which is so characteristic of these mice, was markedly delayed.
Human hematopoietic cell lines, which had been classified on the basis of studies on clonality, and morphological, chromosomal and functional parameters as lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCL) of presumed non-neoplastic origin, and lymphoma, myeloma and leukemia lines of proven malignant origin, were tested for tumorigenic potential on subcutaneous transplantation to nude mice and for capacity to grow in semi-solid medium in vitro. Recently established LCL failed to grow both in nude mice and in agarose. In contrast, some of the LCL which had developed secondary chromosomal alterations during continuous cultivation for periods exceeding several years were tumorigenic and/or had the capacity to form colonies in agarose. Most lymphoma lines formed colonies in agarose and tumors in the mice. One of the two myeloma lines formed subcutaneous tumor which, however, showed no progressive growth. The other myeloma line failed to grow. Both myeloma lines, however, formed colonies in agarose. The myeloid leukemia line was tumorigenic while two of the three tested lymphocytic leukemia lines failed to grow in the mice. All leukemia lines formed colonies in agarose. We conclude from this study that: (1) Of the two types of Epstein-Barr virus containing cell lines [LCL and Burkitt lymphoma (BL) lines], only BL lines were shown to form tumors when inoculated subcutaneously in nude mice and had the capacity to grow in agarose in vitro. This shows that EBV transformation per se does not necessarily render lymphocytes tumorigenic in nude mice. The capacity to form colonies in agarose is not acquired either. (2) Changes of the karyotype and several phenotypic characteristics which occur in the originally diploid LCL during prolonged cultivation in vitro may be accompanied by the acquisition of the potential to grow subcutaneously in nude mice and in agarose in vitro. (3) The inconsistency with regard to the capacity of come of the neoplastic cell lines to grow in nude mice or in agarose seems to underline that neither of the two tests is a reliable criterion for malignancy of human lymphoma, leukemia and myeloma cell lines.
Phenylacetone, 4-phenyl-2-butanone, and 4-oxopentyltrimethylammonium chloride were tested as potential transition state analogs for eel acetylcholinesterase (acetylcholine hydrolase, EC 3.1.1.7). Phenylacetone is a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme but not a transition state analog, since its binding constant is similar to that for the substrate phenyl acetate. 4-Phenyl-2-butanone binds 6-18 times more tightly than the inhibitors 4-phenyl-2-butanol and N-benzylacetamide and the substrate benzyl acetate and also blocks inactivation of the enzyme with methanesulfonyl fluoride. However, its binding is independent of pH in the range 5-7.5, whereas both V and V/Km for benzyl acetate hydrolysis decrease with decreasing pH in this range. These data indicate a specific but weak interaction between the ketone carbonyl and the enzyme, but probably do not justify considering this compound a transition state analog. 4-oxopentyltrimethylammonium iodide has previously been shown to bind about 125 times more strongly than the substrate acetylcholamine. It also binds about 375 times more strongly than the alcohol 4-hydroxypentyltrimethylammonium iodide. Furthermore, the ketone protects the enzyme from inactivation by methansulfony fluoride, while the corresponding quaternary ammonium alcohol accelerates this inactivation reaction. This additional information confirms that the ketone is a transition state analog.
The contamination of mycoplasma cell preparations by serum proteins originating from culture medium was studied. A. laidlawii and M. arthritidis cells were grown in the presence of [14C]-aminoacids, and the cells were washed with 0-9% NaC1 by threefold centrifugation. Total proteins of the washed cells were analysed by SDS gel electrophoresis. Coomassie-stained electrophoretic patterns were compared with autoradiographs of the same gels. The stained electrophoretic pattern of washed A. laidlawii grown without serum was identical with autoradiographs of the same cells grown without or with serum. That of washed A. laidlawii grown with serum differed from the corresponding autoradiography by the presence of extra protein bands I, II, III, and IV with molecular weights of over 160,000, 80,000-87,000, 55,000 and 25,000, respectively. The same extra bands were found in stained electrophoretic patterns of washed: (a) A. laidlawii cells grown without serum and mixed with serum in the stationary phase, (b) M. arthritidis cells, as compared with their autoradiographs, (c) serum precipitate. The bands III and IV may be due to the heavy and light chains of gamma-globulin, the band II might belong to transferrin or to some component of complement. Acidification of serum to pH 5 brought about 100-fold rise of amount of serum precipitate, the number of bands in the electrophoretic pattern of the precipitate being also increased. Stained electrophoretic patterns of cells purified by twofold centrifugation in step sucrose density gradient (1-20-1-27 g./cm.3 for A. laidlawii, and 1-15-1-25 for M. arthritidis) contained no extra bands and matched completely with their autoradiographs. It was concluded that contamination of washed mycoplasma cells by serum proteins is mainly due to co-precipitation of aggregated serum proteins together with cells during centrifugation rather than to adsorption of serum proteins on the cell surface.
1. The properties of inactive and active renin in human plasma and amniotic fluid were studied chromatographically. Activation was achieved at pH 3.3 with and without added pepsin. 2. Acid activation of renin was time- and temperature-dependent but was inhibited by dilution of the sample. The dilution effect was corrected by adding pepsin. Such characteristics indicate that activation at low pH is catalysed by intrinsic enzymes. 3. Separation and/or dilution of the activating enzyme during ion-exchange chromatography concealed the eluted position of inactive renin and reduced the amount recovered. Only after full activation of the eluted renin was achieved with added pepsin was a distinct peak of inactive renin exposed. 4. At pH 7.5 inactive renin carried a lower negative charge than the active enzyme. This charge difference was lost after activation. 5. No molecular-weight differences between active, inactive renin or the International Renin Standard were detected by gel filtration. No renin of larger molecular weight was present. 6. These findings will be helpful in purification studies of human inactive renin.
Experiments with rabbits (30) and albino rats (110) demonstrated that morphine (1 mg/kg), promedol (trimeperidine) (2 mg/kg) and phentanyl (0.02 mg/kg), while raising by 21-24 per cent of the algesia threshold, produced an analgesic effect differeing in its duration (morphine-130 min, trimeperidine-70 min, phentanyl-17 min). This is attended by changes in respiration (greater on introduction of phentanyl, and lesser, following administration of morphine) and by shifts in the functional state of the tissues (greater on introduction of trimeperidine and lesser after aministration of morphine).
Media of pig aorta was extracted with 1 M NaCl and 2 M MgCl2 to remove most of the soluble collagen, proteoglycans and glycoproteins. The glycoproteins remaining in the residue were extracted with 6 M urea-0.1 M mercaptoethanol. The urea soluble proteins were precipitated by dialysis, redissolved in 4 M guanidine-0.05 M DTT and were S-carboxamidomethylated (CM-guanidine extract). This extract was further fractionated by a variety of methods in order to separate a glycoprotein from collagen and proteoglycans. Caesium chloride density-gradient ultracentrifugation of the CM-guanidine extract separated a minor proteoglycan peak from a major glycoprotein fraction still containing some hydroxyproline. This major glycoprotein fraction was excluded as a single peak from Sephadex G 100 and G 200 in 4 M guanidinium chloride or in 6 M urea-0.2 per cent SDS. Sodium dodecylsulphate gel electrophoresis separated this high molecular weight Sephadex fraction into a major low molecular weight (approximately 35000 daltons) component and a minor high molecular weight component. This glycoprotein fraction could also be separated from a collagenous fraction and from proteoglycans by ion exchange chromatography on DEAE cellulose or by gelfiltration on Sepharose 4 B in 6 M urea-0.02 M EDTA-0.2 per cent SDS at pH 7.0. The isolated glycoprotein fraction is rich in dicarboxylic amino acids, contains galactose, mannose, (glucose), N-acetylglucosamine and sialic acid. The S-carboxamidomethyl glycoprotein preparation interacts with acid soluble calf skin collagen on isoelectric focusing in sucrose gradient in urea. This interaction is in favour of the biological role claimed for structural glycoproteins during fibrogenesis and differentiation.
Three capsulate pneumococcal strains of serotypes 1, 2 ans 3, and one non-capsulate strain of serotype 47, were found to activate human complement by the alternative pathway to a similar extent over the concentration range examined. Nevertheless, the capsulate strains, in contrast to the non-capsulate, are known to require complement attachment for phagocytosis and it is therefore postulated that the toxic by-products released cause the wave of oedema characteristic of pneumococcal lobar pneumonia.
The synthesis and some pharmacological effects of 16 3-aryl analogues of butaclamol, a new antipsychotic drug, are described. The animal models were predictive of neuroleptic activity as well as side effects commonly associated with neuroleptic therapy. The results indicate that the 3-substituent plays a critical role with regard to the potency of the compounds as well as to their tendencies to induce extrapyramidal side effects and/or hypotension.
The kinetics of the interaction between deionized supernatant aspartic aminotransferase and various anions (cacodylate, phosphate and chloride) were studied by the temperature-jump technique. The anion concentration in the range covered by our experiments does not affect the transamination rate. On the other hand the conformational transition, recently observed at the active site of the enzyme, is hindered by an excess of anions. A single relaxation effect was observed at the enzyme chromophore wavelength in systems containing the aldimine form of the enzyme and the above anions. It is shown that this effect corresponds to the protonation of the chromophore. The relaxation times were of about 10 mus with phosphate, 20-100 mus with cacodylate and 1-2 ms with chloride. The pH and concentration dependence of this effect were studied. The fits of experimental data to a rate equations for various models were tested by a chi2 analysis. The best fit was obtained with models where anions bind rapidly to a site close to the chromophore, so that the pK of the chromophore is affected by anions binding. The rate of the observed relaxation considerably increased when the anion has buffering capacities; this indicates, in the case of cacodylate and phosphate, that the acidic component of the buffer directly exchanges a proton with the enzyme chromophore.
The kinetic mechanism of the sheep brain glutamine synthetase has been examined by both initial rate kinetics using the glutamate analog beta-glutamate and by isotope exchange measurements at equilibrium. Results of the initial rate studies were compatible with a number of sequential mechanisms but not with a partially or fully ordered rapid equilibrium or a ping-pong mechanism. Kinetic parameters at 37 degrees and pH 7.2 were K beta-Glu = 16 mM, KATP = 0.28 mM, and KNH2OH = 1.4 mM. For all equilibrium exchanges studied (ATP in equilibrium ADP, ATP in equilibrium Pi, and Glu in equilibrium Gln), the rate of exchange rose smoothly to a maximum as all substrates and products were simultaneously raised in a constant ratio. This result is in accord with a random order of substrate addition. A brief treatment of equilibrium exchange rates in cases where all substrate/product pairs are varied together is also presented.
Bovine kidney plasma membranes containing parathyroid hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclase activity were dispersed with 1% Triton X-100 and centrifuged at 150,000 X g for 2 h. Approximately 40% of the total membrane protein was extracted by this procedure. The extraction greatly reduces the fluoride-stimulated and the parathyroid hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclase activity of the membranes and yields a supernatnat which binds biologically active, tritiated parathyroid hormone. Hormone binding is stable for up to 15 h and has a linear dependence on protein concentration in the extract. Binding of the labeled hormone at concentrations of 5 to 10 nM is inhibited by preincubation with unlabeled min, and displays a dependence on temperature, time, and pH. Binding specificity is maximal at physiological pH, being inhibited by only the native hormone or its synthetic 1-34 NH2-terminal, biologically active fragment. Binding increases dramatically at pH 6.0, but is nonspecific in character. Half-maximal inhibition of the binding was achieved at 3.2 X 10(-7) M concentrations of the native hormone and 5.0 X 10(-7) M concentrations of the synthetic 1-34 NH2-terminal fragment. Calcium does not inhibit either total or specific binding. Inhibition, kinetic, and pH dependence data suggest that the extracted component(s) represent the parathyroid hormone binding protein(s) formerly identified in particulate membrane preparations.
The case history of a 9 months old infant with hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopnaenia and disturbances of clotting and cellular immune reactivity is reported. The spleen was removed and showed striking erythrophagocytosis by proliferating histiocytes, typical of "familial erythrophagocytic reticulosis" (Farquhar). A graft-versus-host reaction is discussed as a possible underlying cause. The favourable clinical course and full recovery point to an interrelation with primary hypersplenism.
Eleven infants recovering from protein-calorie malnutrition secondary to acquired monosaccharide intolerance were found to have reduced plasma bicarbonate concentration associated with inadequate weight gain. Renal net acid excretion (NAE) was decreased to a mean of 34.2 micronEq/1.73m2/min. Titratable acidity (TA) was markedly reduced, accounting for only 16% of NAE. This marked reduction in TA was associated with reduced mean phosphate (PO4) excretion (.074 mg/min) and a reduced mean serum PO4 (3.9 mg/dl), suggesting PO4 depletion. Two patients received intravenous phosphate loads, resulting in an increase in mean NAE from 35.1 to 89.7 microgEq/1.73m2/min. A similar response was seen after oral PO4 supplementation. Three patients were studied after partial correction of their acidosis. At a relatively low plasma bicarbonate concentration (mean = 16.6 mmoles/liter) significant amounts of bicarbonate were detected in the urine (mean = 8.7 micronEq/1.73m2/min), suggesting a defect in bicarbonate reabsorption. Five patients studied after complete recovery from malnutrition had normal NAE in response to ammonium chloride load. The reduction in NAE appears to be secondary to unavailability of urinary buffers and a reduction in bicarbonate reabsorption; both of these defects can be explained by phosphate depletion.
Aspartokinase from Streptococcus mutans BHT was purified to homogeneity and characterized. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 242,000 by gel filtration. Cross-linking of aspartokinase with dimethyl suberimidate and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the amidinated enzyme in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate showed the enzyme to be composed of six identical subunits with a molecular wieght of 40,000. The optimal pH range for enzyme activity was 6.5 to 8.5. The apparent Michaelis-Menten constants for aspartate and ATP were 5.5 and 2.2 mM, respectively. The enzyme was stable within the temperature range of 10 to 35 degrees C. Aspartokinase was not feedback inhibited by individual amino acids, but was concertedly inhibited by L-lysine and L-threonine (93.5% inhibition at 10 mM each). The inhibition was noncompetitive with respect to aspartate (Ki = 10 mM) and mixed with respect to ATP. L-Threonine methyl ester and L-threonine amide were able to substitute for L-threonine in feedback inhibition, but the requirement for L-lysine uas strict. The feedback inhibitor pair protected the enzyme against heat denaturation. Aspartokinase synthesis was repressed by L-threonine; this repression was enhanced by L-lysine, but was slightly attenuated by L-methionine.
T-5-induced DNA polymerase has been shown to possess a 3' leads to 5'-exonucleolytic activity. The exonuclease acts on both native and denatured DNA, but the apparent rate of degradation of denatured DNA is about five times faster than that for native DNA. The enzyme appears to act only on 3'-OH ends and produces mainly 5'-dNMP's. Like polymerase activity, exonuclease activity shows a pH optimum around 8.6. Mg2+, dithiothreitol, and N-ethylmaleimide had identical effects on both the activities. Nicked DNA was almost totally protected from exonuclease action under synthetic conditions, i.e., in the presence of 4dNTP's. Denatured DNA was partly degraded in the early phase of incubation with 4dNTP's, presumably due to unhybridized tails at the 3'-OH primer ends. However, the exonuclease activity was operative in both cases under synthetic conditions, as evidenced by template-dependent conversion of [3H]dTTP to [3H]dTMP.
Mild alkaline hydrolysis was found to enhance the mitogenicity of lipopolysaccharide endotoxin for murine B lymphocytes. Alkaline treated lipopolysaccharide also retained its property as a polyclonal activator. Whereas this treatment reduced the lethality of endotoxin for mice, its toxicity for lymphocytes cultured in the absence of fetal calf serum was increased. Lipid analysis indicated that there were no significant changes in the fatty acids of lipid A, but particle size was significantly reduced and the material was more homogeneous and soluble than untreated lipopolysaccharide. The relationship of these effect on the structure of lipopolysaccharide endotoxin to the mechanism of B-lymphocyte activation is discussed.
Yeast hexokinase isozymes P1 and P11 exhibit a pH dependent, rapid relaxation process at 15 degrees C at enzyme concentrations of 100-474 muM and over a pH range of 6-8. The process was detected by equilibrium temperature jump spectroscopy using the indicator probe phenol red. The value of 1/tau varies from about 6 ms-1 at pH 8 for both isozymes to 50 ms-1 for P1 and 85 ms-1 for P11 at pH 6. The data are consistent with a mechanism involving an enzyme isomerization coupled to an ionization. The forward rate constant for the isomerization of the proposed mechanism varies between 3 and 7 ms-1; the ratio of the reverse rate constant to the ionization Ka is between 0.5 and 2 X 10(11) M-1 S-1; the estimated pKa varies between 5.5 and 6.1. The ranges of values in rate constants and pKa represent variations observed between preparations of the same isozyme and between isozymes. The isomerization rate is at least 50 times faster than catalysis under all conditions and the pKa is lower than that controlling activity. The rate of isomerization is unchanged by addition of sugar and nucleotide ligands, but the amplitude of the process is perturbed. These data imply that isomerizing and ionizing forms are sensitive to events at the active site. These equilibria between forms of hexokinase are fast enough, and have the right properties, to be important to the mechanism and regulation of the enzyme.
Pseudomonas ovalis produces L-glutaminase and L-asparaginase activities simultaneously upon induction by L-glutamine or L-asparagin in the growth medium. Both activities are confined to the cell during active growth and are not released into the medium. The apparent Km values are 1.4 X 10(-2) M and 6 X 10(-3) M for L-glutamine and L-asparagine substrates, respectively. Induction of both activities is substantially favoured in media with initial pH values higher than 7. In buffered yeast extract L-asparagine medium, significant amounts of L-glutaminase and L-asparaginase activities appeared towards the end of the exponential phase and along the stationary phase. The process of enzyme formation showed a firm link to the cell active growth, as evidenced by the use of growth inhibitors.
The content of pancreatic enzymes in the duodenum was studied in two patients with pancreatic achylia after a standard meal supplemented with commercial pancreatic extract. Gastric transit of the enzymes, with appearance of near-normal amounts in the duodenal contents, occurred only after inhibition of gastric secretion and buffering of residual gastric acid with antacids. Gastric inhibition and neutralisation of acid are therefore necessary for the satisfactory treatment of patients with pancreatic exocrine insufficiency but normal gastric function.
An aldehyde reductase (EC 1.1.1.2) from human liver has been purified to homogeneity. The enzyme is NADPH-dependent, prefers aromatic to aliphatic aldehydes as substrates, and is inhibited by barbiturates and hydantoins. The following physicochemical parameters were determined: molecular weight, 36,200; sedimentation coefficient, 2.9 S; Stokes radius, 2.65 nm; isoelectric point, pH 5.3; extinction coefficient at 280 nm, 54,300 M-1 cm-1. Results from polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with and without sodium dodecyl sulfate, gel filtration, and ultracentrifugation suggest a monomeric structure. On molecule of NADPH binds to the enzyme causing a red shift of the coenzyme absorption maximum from 340 to 352 nm. The amino acid composition has been determined and a partial specific volume of 0.74 was computed from these data. An alpha-helicity of 7 and 18% was estimated from the ellipticities at 208 and 222 nm, respectively. Combination of the most reactive thiol group with p-mercuribenzoate does not cause loss of catalytic activity. Inactivation occurs when more than one thiol group is modified. The presence of NADPH or NADP+ prevents loss of activity by thiol modification. The comparison of structural features of aldehyde reductase with other monomeric and oligomeric dehydrogenases suggest similarities of aldehyde reductase with octopine dehydrogenase.
The determinants of "successful" aging have been a main concern in social gerontological research. The Continuity Hypothesis suggests that there is a relationship between an older person's life satisfaction and the similarity of his social life situation in middle adulthood and in old age. The old person is the more likely to score low in life satisfaction the less similar his old age situation to his life situation in middle adulthood. This hypothesis has been tested in summer 1973 in Cologne with a sample of 406 people aged 65 and over. Findings indicate that continuity of life situation may be an important variable accounting for life satisfaction in old age. Moreover, it could be shown that the various negatively experienced life changes since adulthoood formed a complex of interacting variables, thereby increasing the negative effect on the old person's life satisfaction. Health proved to be one of the most important variables. The continuity hypothesis as stated here represents a modified version of activity theory.
Aerobic incubation of a misture of E[1,1,1-D3]-3,4;bis(p-hydroxyphenyl)-hex-3-ene admixed with an approximately equimolar amount of unlabeled diethylstilbestrol and [ 2-(14)C ] diethylstilbestrol with rat liver homogenates in the presence of NADPH yielded water-soluble metabolites as well as products more and less polar than the starting material. Addition of 5-adenosyl-L-methionine increased the quantity of nonpolar metabolites. Incubation with rat liver microsomes yielded similar results. When polar metabolites from incubation with rat liver microsomes were incubated with catechol O-methyltransferase and S-adenosyl[methyl-3 H]-L-methionine there was conversion to 3H-labeled nonpolar products. Examination of reaction products by means of gas chronatography-mass spectrometry gave evidence for the formation of a dihydroxydiethylstilbestrol, a dihydroxydienestrol, and a monomethoxydiethylstilbestrol.
Salicylazosulfapyridine has been used for a number of years as therapy for ulcerative colitis. Reported toxicities are usually minor. This case report represents an acute allergic reaction to the drug. Characterized by fever, rash, eosinophilia, nephritis, and hepatitis. Resolution occurred with discontinuation of salicylazosulfapyridine. Although similar reactions have been reported with the antimicrobial sulfonamides, none has been fully described with salicylazosulfapyridine, a combination of a sulfonamide and salicylate.
Aqueous biphasic partitioning of Salmonella typhimurium S and R bacteria in a system containing 6.2 per cent (w/w) dextran 500 and 4.4 per cent (w/w) poly(ethyleneglycol) 6000 (PEG) was similar to the partition of the corresponding surface lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Further partition analysis with charged PEG showed that S bacteria and their LPS exposed very little charge, whereas R bacteria and their LPS showed a conspicuous negative charge at neutral pH. Free zone electrophoresis also indicated that the S bacteria have a much lower surface charge density than the R bacteria and accordingly a different surface structure. Thus, the physico-chemical properties of the bacterial surface seem to be determined to a great extent by the characteristics of the cell surface LPS.
The cumulative theophylline transfer rate across 10-cm everted rat intestinal sacs incubated at 37 degrees in pH 7.4 Krebs phosphate buffer was determined. A suspension of ditheophylline succinate ( a potential prodrug of theophylline) and a solution of theophylline at equimolar concentration were evaluated to determine the magnitude of the difference between the cumulative theophylline transfer rates from the two preparations. A linear concentration dependency for the rate across the intestinal wall was evidenced. The theophylline formation rate from ditheophylline succinate suspended in pH 7.4 Krebs buffer at 37 degrees followed apparent zero-order kinetics. The observed difference (fourfold) between the cumulative transfer rates estimated for the theophylline solution and the ditheophylline succinate suspention was attributed to the prevailing theophylline concentration in the mucosal solutions. The biopharmaceutical implication of these observations are discussed.
Oxatomide is a new potent inhibitor of anaphylactic and allergic reactions. After oral administration, the compound both inhibits the release of endogenous histamine and prevents the effects of exogensous histamine, at comparable doses. The combination of these effects appears to be the basis of the effectiveness of oxatomide in allergic reactions and may lead to clinical application different from classical antihistaminics and from cromoglycate.
During an uncontrolled trial 46 depressed patients (39 endogenous depressions, 5 schizoaffective psychoses and 2 paranoic schizophrenics with depressive syndromes) were treated for 43 days on the average with 3 X 100 mg 1-[3-(10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]-azepin-5-yl)-propyl]-4-piperidino-piperidine-4-carboxamide-dihydrochloride-monohydrate (carpipramine) daily. The clinical impression of the improvement and the results of the Hamilton-Scale for depressions (19 patients, 24 items) showed a clear antidepressive effect of carpipramine. During a double-blind trial 14 patients were treated with carpipramine and 16 with doxepine for 30 days. Most patients suffered from endogenous depressions with paranoic symptoms or from schizophrenia with depressive syndromes. Statistical analysis of the Hamilton-Scale for depressions and the AMP-System showed the antidepressive and antipsychotic effect of carpipramine. Analysis of covariance showed no significant difference between carpipramine and doxepine. Altogether we treated 60 depressive patients with carpipramine. 26 patients improved very well and 11 moderately, that means 37 patients out of 60 reacted positively to therapy with carpipramine. One endogenous depression and a schizoaffective psychosis changed into a manic phase. A provocation of schizophrenic symptoms was not noticed. Carpipramine was very well tolerated and can be classified as a non-sedative antidepressant with an antipsychotic effect.
Physical principles underlying the chemiosmotic hypothesis of membrane phosphorylation are analysed. The utilization of free energy determined by dydrogen ions concentration difference across the membrane for ATP synthesis requires ATP-synthetase to be an entropy machine able to perform work on account of heat. The chemiosmotic hypothesis assumes the possibility of interchangeable utilization of both components of proton electrochemical potential-the membrane electrical difference and proton concentration gradient-for ATP synthesis. This assumption requires the fulfillment of practically unrealizable conditions. Energetic coupling of intracellular chemical reactions must be realized by means of a mechanism in which every act of energydonating reaction leads compulsory to one act of energyaccepting reaction. For such a mechanism both reactions ought to proceed essentially in one elementary act. For intracellular macromolecular and supramolecular systems it implies the necessity of excitation of specific mechanical slowly relaxing degrees of freedom.
Based on the observation of 11 patients (10 males and 1 female), the occurrence of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in two new geographic areas of Romania is reported. Two patients died within several hours after admission. The other nine recovered gradually. In four patients hemodialysis was necessary. A complete recovery of renal functions one year after onset could be proved in four patients. The clinical, laboratory, morphopathological (necroptic and bioptic), epidemiologic and evolutive characteristics of the disease, especially the main features supporting the diagnosis of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome, are discussed.
Rate constants for the reaction between horseradish peroxidase compound I and p-cresol have been determined at several values of pH between 2.98 and 10.81. These rate constants were used to construct a log (rate) versus pH profile from which it is readily seen that the most reactive form of the enzyme is its most basic form within this pH range so that base catalysis is occurring. At the maximum rate a second order rate constant of (5.1 +/- 0.3) x 10(-7) M-1 s-1 at 25 degrees is obtained. The activation energy of the reaction at the maximum rate was determined from an Arrhenius plot to be 5.0 +/- 0.5 kcal/mol. Evidence for an exception to the generally accepted enzymatic cycle of horseradish peroxidase is presented. One-half molar equivalent of p-cresol can convert compound I quantitatively to compound II at high pH, whereas usually this step requires 1 molar equivalent of reductant. The stoichiometry of this reaction is pH-dependent.
The effects of a highly acidic environment on the cell-associated alkaline phosphatase activities of a smooth and a rough strain of Escherichia coli O8 have been examined. The observation that cell-associated enzyme is denatured to a lesser degree than purified enzyme suggests that the association of the enzyme with the cell envelope affords it some degree of protection from potentially disruptive agents in the environment. The degree of protection afforded the enzyme from pH denaturation appears to be dependent upon the presence of a complete lipopolysaccharide in the outer membrane of these strains. An abbreviation of the chemical structure of this cell envelope component produces a change in the outer membrane, resulting in increased susceptibility of the cells to a battery of antibiotics and to lysozyme and in a small, but significant, change in the sensitivity of the cell envelope-associated alkaline phosphatase to the denaturing effect of an acidic environment.
Both the microvillus and basal-lateral membrane components of intestinal epithelial cells were found to contain endogenous cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinases and their endogenous protein substrates. The phosphorylation of either membrane component using [gamma-32P]ATP as substrate, occurred very rapidly, reaching maximal levels at 1 min. Both cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP were shown to stimulate the phosphorylation of the microvillus and basal-lateral membranes; the approximate concentrations of cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP required for half-maximal stimulation of phosphorylation were 2 x 10(-7) M and 1.7 x 10(-8) M, respectively, for the basal-lateral membranes, and 2 x 10(-7) M and 3.2 x 10(-8) M, respectively, for the microvillus membranes. Although both membrane components were phosphorylated by an endogenous protein kinase, the microvillus membrane was consistently phosphorylated to a greater extent at maximally effective concentrations of either cyclic nucleotide. The microvillus and basal-lateral membranes were also found to contain a phosphoprotein phosphatase; however, the rate of removal of [32P]phosphate from the microvillus membrane was found to be more rapid. Neither cyclic AMP nor cyclic GMP altered the activity of the enzyme in either membrane. The present results together with earlier studies are compatible with the possibility that the regulation of water and electrolyte transport in the small intestine by cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP may be mediated through modulation of the phosphorylation of protein components of the microvillus and basal-lateral membranes.
The amino groups of insulin have been studied by 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in insulin, zinc-free insulin and methylated insulin. By difference spectroscopy it is possible to follow the shift with pH of the epsilon-CH2 and delta-CH2 proton resonances of lysine-B29 in insulin. In methylated insulin the dimethyl proton resonances of glycine-A1, phenylalanine-B1 and lysine-B29 can be followed as a function of pH. In native insulin pKapp values of 6.7 and 8.0 are obtained for phenylalanine-B1 and glycine-A1 (the assignment is tentative) and 11.2 for lysine-B29. Separate resonances have been observed from the lysine-B29 Nepsilon-(CH3)2 group for the monomeric and dimeric forms of methylated insulin, which indicates a small change in the environment of lysine-B29 on dimerisation. The nuclear magnetic resonance spectral characteristics of these groups are, in general, consistent with the overall structure of the crystal form of the 2-zinc insulin hexamer.
Two enzymes which transaminate tyrosine and phenylalanine in Bacillus subtilis were each purified over 200-fold and partially characterized. One of the enzymes, termed histidinol phosphate aminotransferase, is also active with imidazole acetyl phosphate as the amino group recipient. Previous studies have shown that mutants lacking this enzyme require histidine for growth. Mutants in the other enzyme termed aromatic aminotransferase are prototrophs. Neither enzyme is active on any other substrate involved in amino acid synthesis. The two enzymes can be distinguished by a number of criteria. Gel filtration analysis indicate the aromatic and histidinol phosphate aminotransferases have molecular weights of 63,500 and 33,000, respectively. Histidinol phosphate aminotransferase is heat-sensitive, whereas aromatic aminotransferase is relatively heat-stable, particularly in the presence of alpha-ketoglutarate. Both enzymes display typical Michaelis-Menten kinetics in their rates of reaction. The two enzymes have similar pH optima and employ a ping-pong mechanism of action. The Km values for various substrates suggest that histidinol phosphate aminotransferase is the predominant enzyme responsible for the transamaination reactions in the synthesis of tyrosine and phenylalanine. This enzyme has a 4-fold higher affinity for tyrosine and phenylalanine than does the aromatic aminotransferase. Competitive substrate inhibition was observed between tyrosine, phenylalanine, and histidinol phosphate for histidinol phosphate aminotransferase. The significance of the fact that an enzyme of histidine synthesis plays an important role in aromatic amino acid synthesis is discussed.
Fifty-seven temperature-sensitive (ts) mutants of a neurotropic variant of vaccinia virus were obtained. A comparison of the effectiveness of 6 different mutagens showed that in in vivo experiments nitrosomethylurea induced 10%, nitrosoguanidine 8%, and bromodeoxyuridine 2.5% ts mutants. In vitro, at the same degree of inactivation, UV irradiation, hydroxylamine and nitrous acid induced 2.5% ts mutants. Out of 49 mutants studied, 27 had a DNA+ phenotype, 19 a DNA+/-and 3 a DNA- phenotype. Under permissive conditions, two thirds of all the mutants tested formed thermolabile virions. In experiments on genetic recombination, the recombination frequency between different pairs was from 2.8 to 57%. Seven of the mutants were plotted on the virus genetic map in a certain sequence.
Studies were undertaken on the immune reactions in aging at cerebral atherosclerosis and parkinsonism. With age a number of changes occurred, which were characterized by a decrease in specific and non-specific immunity, against the background of which the autoimmune reactions were developing. There was an increase in the frequency of the detection of antibodies to antigens of the brain as well as in those of the aorta, heart, liver and pancreatic gland. The "peak" of autoimmune reactions was registered at 65 years in men and 75 years in women. There were lymphocytes in the peripheral blood, which together with homologic antigens inhibited the migration of macrophages. In subjects aged 90 years and over the autoantibodies occurred in a lower percent of cases as compared with the subjects aged 60--74. In subjects aged 45--55 with cerebral atherosclerosis the indices under study appeared to be close to those in healthy persons aged 60--74. Still more marked immunological shifts were found in patients with parkinsonism. The findings may suggest a certain role of the autoimmune mechanisms in pathogenesis of some forms of nervous pathology at late stages of ontogenesis and atherosclerosis.
Toxin III, the smallest toxin component of the poison of the sea anemone Anemonia sulcata, is a polypeptide with 27 amino acids. Its structure is stabilized by three disulfide bridges. The amino acid sequence was determined by solid-phase Edman degradation of the aminoethylated derivative. The peptide was coupled to the carrier, porous glass, by thiourea bridges between the alpha-amino group of arginine-1 and the epsilon-amino group of lysine-26 and the isothiocyanate groups of the carrier. Another fraction of the polypeptide was bound by an acid-amide condensation of the C-terminal valine-27 with the aminopropyl group of the carrier. The sequence of toxin III has no regions homologous to the 47-residue toxin II. Comparison with the known partial sequence of toxin I, which contains 46 amino acids (Wunderer, G. & Eulitz, M., in preparation) also fails to reveal homologies.
A method is described for the purification of native hexokinases P-I and P-II from yeast using preparative isoelectric focussing to separate the isozymes. The binding of glucose to hexokinase P-II, and the effect of this on the monomer--dimer association--dissociation reaction have been investigated quantitatively by a combination of titrations of intrinsic protein fluorescence and equilibrium ultracentrifugation. Association constants for the monomer-dimer reaction decreased with increasing pH, ionic strength and concentration of glucose. Saturating concentrations of glucose did not bring about complete dissociation of the enzyme showing that both sites were occupired in the dimer. At pH 8.0 and high ionic strength, where the enzyme existed as monomer, the dissociation constant of the enzyme-glucose complex was 3 X 10(-4) mol 1(-1) and was independent of the concentration of enzyme. Binding to the dimeric form at low pH and ionic strength (I=0.02 mol 1(-1), pH less than 7.5) was also independent of enzyme concentration (in the range 10-1000 mug ml-1) but was much weaker. The process could be described by a single dissociation constant, showing that the two available sites on the dimer were equivalent and non-cooperative; values of the intrinsic dissociation constant varied from 2.5 X 10(-3) mol 1(-1) at pH 7.0 to 6 X 10(-3) at pH 6.5. Under intermediate conditions (pH 7.0, ionic strength=0.15 mol 1(-1)), where monomer and dimer coexisted, the binding of glucose showed weak positive cooperatively (Hill coefficient 1.2); in addition, the binding was dependent upon the concentration of enzyme in the direction of stronger binding at lower concentrations. The results show that the phenomenon of half-sites reactivity observed in the binding of glucose to crystalline hexokinase P-II does not occur in solution; the simplest explanation of our finding the two sites to be equivalent is that the dimer results from the homologous association of two identical subunits.
Citrinin, a fungal metabolite known as an antibiotic, strongly inhibited the labeled acetate incorporation into nonsaponifiable lipids by a cell-free system from rat liver but not the labeled mevalonate incorporation. Of the enzymes involved in cholesterol synthesis, two enzymes, acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (EC 2.3.1.9) and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (EC 1.1.1.34), were specifically inhibited by the antibiotic. The concentration required for 50% inhibition was 0.2 mM for the former enzyme and 0.5 mM for the latter. Essentially the same results were obtained with a cell-free system from yeast although higher concentrations of the antibiotic were required for inhibition.
Multiple deficiency disorder fibroblasts cultured in MEM-CO2 showed deficiencies of arylsulfatase A(ARS A) comparable to the deficiency in metachromatic leukodystrophy fibroblasts. However, the MSDD fibroblasts cultured in MEM-HEPES contained near normal levels of ARS A. Moreover, the enzyme from the latter fibroblasts was indistinguishable from ARS A of control fibroblasts on DEAE-cellulose chromatography, ratio of activity with several substrates, thermal inactivation, sensitivity to inhibitors, and precipitation by antiserum to human ARS A. These data support the conclusion that the ARS A genome is intact in MSDD fibroblasts and, by extension, in MSDD patients. Other sulfatases were present at levels ranging from mildly deficient to near normal but never as low as seen in the corresponding specific sulfatase deficient disorders.
The localization of alkaline phosphatases in dentinogenically active rat incisor odontoblasts was studied by means of subcellular fractionation and electron microscopical histochemistry. Subcellular fractionation revealed the predominant phosphatase activity to be present in the microsome fraction and to a lesser extent in the mitochondrial fraction. Adenosine triphosphate degrading enzyme activity was determined in the presence or absence of (+/-)-6(m-bromophenyl)-5, 6-dihydroimidazo(le) (2,1-b) thiazole oxalate (R 8231). Before the histochemical study, the effects on phosphatase activities by aldehyde fixation were studied by biochemical assay. A method of fixation for optimal preservation of phosphatase activity is presented. Phosphatase electron microscopic histochemistry was performed by using ATP as a substrate and with or without addition of the inhibitor R 82319 Precipitates were seen in the membranes of vesicles present in the odontoblast process and the Golgi region. When there were signs of insufficient fixation, precipitates were also seen in the outer membranes of mitochondria. No phosphatase activity was seen in the cell membrane. ATP degrading enzyme activities mediated by nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (APase) and Ca2+ -adenosine triphosphatase thus have the same morphological localization. This close association is consistent with earlier biochemical studies.
From its beginnings about a century ago, research into the mechanisms underlying the stress response has led by many avenues to the adrenal medulla and its chromaffin cells. The latter possess cholinergic synapses that, when activated by a wide variety of stimuli, trigger discharge of catecholamines directly into the blood. Control of the response is mediated by a final common pathway arising in the hypothalamus and/or midbrain.
The authors define the management of a patient following emergency admission for the ingestion of a caustic liquid: immediate assessment by fibroscope oesophagoscopy; avoidance of all corticosteroid therapy and of the insertion of a gastric tube; parenteral alimentation. The frequency of early deaths has considerably decreased since the applications of this method, either as a result of shock or of the inhalation of caustic liquid.
In six healthy male volunteers at sea level (PB 747-759 Torr), we measured pH and PCO2 in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and in arterial and jugular bulb blood; from these data we estimated PCO2 (12) and pH for the intracranial portion of CSF. The measurements were repeated after 5 days in a hypobaric chamber (PB 447 Torr). Both lumbar and intracranial CSF were significantly more alkaline at simulated altitude than at sea level. Decrease in [HCO3-] IN lumbar CSF at altitude was similar to that in blood plasma. Both at sea level and at high altitude, PCO2 measured in the lumbar CSF was higher than that estimated for the intracranial CSF. At altitude, hyperoxia, in comparison with breathing room air, resulted in an increase in intracranial PCO2, and a decrease in the estimated pH in intracranial CSF. With hyperoxia at altitude, alveolar ventilation was significantly higher than during sea-level hyperoxia or normoxia, confirming that a degree of acclimatization had occurred. Changes in cerebral arteriovenous differences in CO2, measured in three subjects, suggest that cerebral blood flow may have been elevated after 5 days at altitude.
Fructose diphosphate aldolase (D-fructose-1,6-biphosphate D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate lyase, EC 4.1.2.13) from rabbit heart has been purified and obtained in crystalline form. The preparations are homogeneous on the basis of disc gel electrophoresis and ultracentrifugation. The catalytic and the molecular properties indicate that this is aldolase A. A comparison was made between rabbit heart aldolase and the rabbit muscle enzyme. The sedimentation coefficient, energy of activation and Michaelis constant for Fru-1,6-P2 were found to be identical with the values obtained for the muscle enzyme. As in case of the muscle enzyme, heart aldolase was found to have a broad pH optimum, remarkable stability over a wide pH range, and the ability to form a Schiff base intermediate with dihydroxyacetone phosphate upon reduction with borohydride. Cleavage of the methionyl bonds with CNBr yields the same pattern as obtained with the muscle enzyme.
Ventilatory response to CO2 was measured before and after two different benzodiazepine hypnotics in both chronic bronchitics and patients without chest disease. Flurazepam, but not nitrazepam, produced a significant decrease in CO2 sensitivity, although there was no significant change in FEV1 or mixed venous PCO2. This is the first unequivocal evidence of central depression of respiration by a benzodiazepine and may be the mechanism by which benzodiazepines cause deterioration in patients with respiratory failure.
The role of post-synaptic cells in the development of pre-synaptic cholinergic nerve terminals has been investigated in immature rat superior cervical ganglia (SCG) and adrenals employing chemical agents which prevent the normal maturation of post-synaptic cells. A marked atrophy of ganglion adrenergic neurons after guanethidine administration was accompanied by the complete failure of normal maturation of choline acetyltransferase (ChAc) activity in the presynaptic endings. However, the same treatment failed to alter the levels of ChAc in the mature ganglia despite the marked atrophy of adrenergic neurons. Administration of dexamethasone resulted in a growth retardation of ganglion neurons as well as adrenal chromaffin cells reflected by the lower levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase than those in untreated tissues. The levels of ChAc were significantly lower in the ganglia, but not in the adrenals when treatment was started immediately after birth. These results support the view that the normal synapse formation in the SCG depends on the normal maturation of adrenergic neurons, and suggest that this dependence is detectable only during a limited period of life.
1. A clinical study of pyratrione, a tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor, has been carried out in essential hypertension. 2. Out of thirty-nine patients who received pyratrione, twenty-eight showed a significant decrease in blood pressure.
Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the lateral hypothalamus or intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine injections produced substantial depletions of striatal dopamine in rates. All animals with brain damage showed marked sensorimotor impairments. However, they began to move and respond appropriately to environmental stimuli when placed in a sink of water, in a shallow ice bath, or among a colony of cats or rats. A reversal of the sensorimotor dysfunctions was still apparent shortly after the animals were removed from each activating situation. However, the terapeutic effects dissipated rapidly, and by 4 hr after an exposure the rats responded as poorly as they had prior to activation. These findings are strikingly similar to the "paradoxical kinesia" seen in parkinsonism, a clinical disorder attributed to degeneration of central dopamine-containing neurons. Collectively, they suggest the importance of activation in maintaining responsiveness to senory stimuli in rats following dopamine-depleting brain lesions.
A sensitive and specific method for the quantitative determination of the optical isomers of amphetamine from human plasma and saliva is described. Amphetamine was extracted from basified plasma or saliva with hexane and then derivatized by reaction with N-pentafluorobenzoyl-S-(-)-prolyl-1-imidazolide. The reaction of the amphetamine enantiomers with this chiral reagent yields diasteriomers which are easily resolved by gas liquid chromatography. The resolved diasteriomers upon elution from the gas chromatograph were measured quantitatively by chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Plasma and saliva levels achieved following the oral administration of 10 mg of dl-, d- and l-amphetamine in man are reported.
Metachromatic leucodystrophies (MLD) comprise a small group of heredodegenerative disorders of the nervous system. Deficiency of sulfatide-sulfatase or arylsulfatase A is the common defect in all forms of MLD leading to lysosomal sulfatide storage in the nervous tissue and in the kidney. On the basis of animal experiments, experiments with cultured fibroblasts of the patients as well as ultrastructural studies in a case of prenatal MLD, the following pathomechanism is proposed: 1. Lysosomal degradation of a large portion newly synthetised sulfatide normally regulating the net synthesis and incorporation of sulfatide into myelin, causes early accumulation of sulfatide in lysosomes of myelinating cells and in neurons in the genetic deficiency of arylsulfatase A. 2. Early accumulation of sulfatide does not lead to disturbance in myelination. Demyelination occurs possibly by storage of a cytotoxic compound, psychosin sulfate, also a substrate for the missing enzyme. Prevention of MLD is possible by prenatal diagnosis of arylsulfatase A deficiency in cultured amniotic cells. Enzyme substitution of the missing arylsulfatase A is possible by exogenous uptake of the enzyme in cultured fibroblasts. Thereby the defect of sulfatide degradation can be corrected. Although principles of enzyme substitution have been demonstrated, the problems of treating patients with MLD with arylsulfatase A infusions have yet to be overcome.
Phosphoglycerate mutase and bisphosphoglycerate synthase (mutase) can both be phosphorylated by either glycerate-1,3-P2 or glycerate-2,3-P2 to form phosphohistidine enzymes. The present study uses a rapid quench procedure to determine if, for each enzyme, the formation of the phosphorylated enzyme and phosphate transfer from the enzyme can occur at rates consistent with the overall reactions. With bisphosphoglycerate synthase from horse red blood cells (glycerate-1,3-P2 leads to glycerate-2,3-P2) at pH 7.5, 25 degrees, phosphorylation of the enzyme appears rate-limiting, k = 13.5 s-1, compared with kcat = 12.5 s-1 for the overall synthase rate. Phosphoryl transfer from the enzyme to phosphoglycerate occurs at 38 s-1 at 4 degrees and was too fast to measure at 25 degrees. With chicken muscle phosphoglycerate mutase the half-times were too short to measure under optimal conditions. The rate of enzyme phosphorylation by glycerate-2,3-P2 at pH 5.5, 4 degrees, could account for the overall reaction rate of 170 s-1. The rate of phosphoryl transfer from the enzyme to glycerate-3-P was too rapid to measure under the same conditions. It is concluded that the phosphorylated enzymes have kinetic properties consistent with their participation as intermediates in the reactions catalyzed by these enzymes.
Variations in the urinary excretion of arylsulphatase A, beta-galactosidase, alpha-glucosidase and beta-glucuronidase throughout a 24-h period were studied in 8 healthy subjects. Urine was collected at 3-h intervals and enzyme activities were assayed after gelfiltration of the urine specimens. Significant intra-individual changes of the excretion of all 4 enzymes during the 24-h period were found. Enzyme output was high between 3 a.m. and 9 a.m. and low during the afternoon and evening hours. The most striking pattern was seen for arylsulphatase A. Diurnal variations of urinary enzyme excretion seemed not to be flow dependent. Both modes of expression of enzyme output (mU/min or U/g creatinine) gave corresponding results. It is concluded that for the measurement of the excretion of these enzymes urine should be collected during a fixed time interval, e.g. from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m.
Corticosteroid-induced tyrosine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.5) from cultured hepatoma cells was separated by carboxymethyl-Sephadex chromatography into three molecular forms resembling those described previously in the rat liver. Enzyme forms were isolated and used as purified substrates to examine their in vitro interconversion by various subcellular fractions. Isolated form III was converted to forms II and I, and isolated form II was converted to form I by the coarse particulate fraction sedimenting at 1000 X g. This activity was inhibited by the serine enzyme inhibitor phenylmethane sulfonyl fluoride or by raising the pH to 8.7. Conversion of enzyme forms in vitro in the opposite direction (I leads to II leads to III) could not be detected. The distribution of enzyme forms in vivo was examined by the use of experimental conditions that prevent their in vitro interconversion during cell extraction. Tyrosine aminotransferase extracted from cell subjected to various treatments that affect the rates of enzyme synthesis or degradation existed always predominantly as form III. It appears, therefore, that multiple forms of tyrosine aminotransferase are not related to the turnover of this enzyme in vivo.
Three cases of coma occuring during parenteral alimentation are presented. The common factor was that they occurred during the phase of realimentation in patients with severely impaired nutrition. In two cases out of three, the coma marked the beginning of the absolute or relative anabolic period. They were studied clinically, biologically and electrically. In one case only, major hypophosphataemia was discovered (2mg/l). Of the three patients, one only died 4 days after the onset of coma, whilst clinical and biological characteristics had returned to normal.
The latency of inosine-5'-diphosphatase has been studied in microsomes isolated from rat liver. The appearance of latent activity was the result of an increase in the Vmax of the enzyme. This was observed when assays were carried out in the presence of sodium deoxycholate, after microsomes were treated wtih phospholipase C, or at pH 10.3 and after microsomes were subjected to nitrogen cavitation. The apparent Km of inosine-5'-diphosphatase for IDP was unchanged when microsomes were treated with phospholipase C or at pH 10.3 after both these treatments approximately 85% of the enzyme remained bound to the membrane. In contrast, when microsomes were treated with phospholipase C or at pH 10.3 after both these treatments approximately 85% of the enzyme remained bound to the membrane. In contrast, when microsomes were treated with sodium deoxycholate or subjected to nitrogen cavitation, approximately 75% of the inosine-5'-diphosphatase activity was released from the membrane, and the apparent Km of the enzyme for IDP increased 4- and 2-fold, respectively. Microsomal cisternae were loaded with lead phosphate by incubation with glucose-6-P and Pb2+, and the release of this lead phosphate following the addition of EDTA to the medium was determined to estimate the permeability of the microsomal membrane. When microsomes were treated with sodium deoxycholate, phospholipase C, or at alkaline pH, the microsomal membrane became almost completely permeable to EDTA under conditions where there was little or no increase in the activity of inosine-5'-diphosphatase. Microsomes were treated at pH 10.3 and then adjusted slowly to pH 7.5. The activity of inosine-5'-diphosphatase decreased to the same activity observed in untreated preparations. The results seem of exclude the possibility that latent inosine-5'-diphosphatase activity is the result of an increased permeability of the membrane to IDP. They are, however, consistent with the presence of a noncompetitive inhibitor of the enzyme in the microsomal membrane.
The hydroxylation at C-2 of testosterone and 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone is measured by isolation of HTO after incubating "metabolically labile" tritium labeled steroids with the enzymes. After hydroxylation of testosterone in rat liver 2alpha-hydroxytestosterone was isolated and identified by gaschromatography and mass spectra.
A new technique has been developed for the rapid isolation of covalently closed circular DNA molecules. The procedure is a selective extraction based on differences in the partitioning of covalently closed circular DNA molecules and noncovalently closed species between phenol and water at acid pH and low ionic strength. Under the conditions described, linear as well as nicked circular DNA is extracted into phenol, while covalently closed circular DNA molecules remain in the water phase. The method permits the quantitative isolation of covalently closed circular DNA from either total cellular DNA or partially purified preparations, to a degree of purity comparable with buoyant density procedures.
We describe a procedure for measuring dialyzable calcium in 60 sera per hour with use of AutoAnalyzer (Technicon) modules. The serum is buffered, then dialyzed in a regular 6-inch (15-cm) dialysis block. A constant proportion of the dialyzable calcium is fluorometrically measured. Analysis of samples containing protein, prepared by an equilibrium dialysis technique, shows that protein-bound calcium is not detected. The method requires less than 0.4 ml of serum, and is accurate, precise, and durable. No unusual care or special techniques are required during sample collection or analysis.
The binding of hemoglobin to the red cell membrane was characterized over a wide range of free hemoglobin concentrations by measurement of membrane bound and supernatant hemoglobin. Scatchard analysis of the binding data revealed two classes of sites: high affinity sites with a binding constant of 1 X 10(8) M-1 and 1.2 X 10(6) sites per cell, and a second, low affinity class of sites with a binding constant of 6 X 10(6)M-1 and 6 X 10(6) sites per cell. The low affinity sites are shown to be nonspecific and appear to be a result of the ghost preparation. The high affinity sites are shown to be specific to the inner surface of the red cell membrane. The competition of hemoglobin and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase suggests band III proteins as a potential binding site for hemoglobin.
In the neural retina of the chick embryo, hydrocortisone (HC) elicits differential gene expression resulting in the induction of glutamine synthetase (GS), which is an enzyme marker of differentiation in the retina. The relationship between nuclear binding of receptor-hydrocortisone (R-HC) complexes and GS induction was investigated in cultures of retina tissue from 12-day chick embryos. The number of HC binding sites in the cytoplasm was estimated as 1650+/-200 per retina cell; there are approximately 1500+/-100 acceptor sites for R-HC per retina nucleus. GS induction in the retina became detectable only after R-HC bound to more than 40% of the nuclear acceptors sites; increased binding coincided with higher induction levels, until complete site saturation was attained; Proflavine, which blocks preferentially and completely GS induction in the retina by interfering in the nucleus with the enzyme-inducing action of the hormone, reduced nuclear binding of R-HC by only 20%; thus, only part of the R-HC that binds in the nucleus appears to be directly involved in eliciting the induction of GS. Within one hour after exposure of the retina to an inducing dose of HC, there was translocation of HC and HC-receptors (as R-HC complexes) from the cytoplasm into the nucleus and saturation of nuclear accepegan to decline; in 12 h, it was reduced to 50% of the initial saturation level. Since, during this time, the enzyme activity to increase, persistence of the induced state depends on association of the hormone with only a portion of the sites in the nucleus to which it can bind. The decrease in the amount of bound HC in the nuclei of induced cells was accompanied by an increase in the level of HC receptors in the cytoplasm. About 50% of this increase could be prevented by cycloheximide; this suggests that the reappearance of HC receptors in the cell cytoplasm may be due, at least in part, to de novo synthesis of HC receptors.
Spectrum and sensitivity of bacteria were studied at the Surgical (534 positive wound smears) and the Urological Clinics (7879 urine specimens). Krankenhaus Nordwest, Frankfurt/M., during the period of 1969-1971 and in 1973. The most common organisms identified in wound smears were E. coli, followed by Staph. areus, Aerobacter and Proteus species. E. coli were also predominant in urine, but followed by Enterococci, Proteus and Pseudomonas. E. coli, Proteus species and especially Pseudomonas increased in number whereas Enterococci decreased. There was no pronounced increase in resistance to 9 current antibiotics as well as to chemotherapeutics during the observation period which was particularly striking in the case of Ampicillin used on a large scale. The results of our study support the presently employed therapeutic method using bactericidal antibiotics of the penicillin group in strict indications.
Various amounts of carbon dioxide were removed through an extracorporeal membrane lung in spontaneously breathing lambs. The decrease in alveolar ventilation was proportional to the fraction of total carbon dioxide removed by the membrane lung. When extracorporeal CO2 removal approximated CO2 production (VCO2), alveolar ventilation almost ceased. Pulmonary ventilation can be controlled by extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal.
The specificity of bovine spleen cathepsin B2 has been investigated by means of some natural oligo- and polypeptides, i.e. glucagon, melittin, insulin A and B chain, bradykinin, angiotensin I and II, oxytocin ACTH, clupein and salmin. The enzyme is primarily a carboxypeptidase which hydrolyzes peptide linkages of most amino acids common to proteins. In addition, cathepsin B2 displays amidase and esterase activity without requiring a free carboxyl group. The main pH optimum is between 4 and 5, in some cases higher.
The changes in LES pressure were measured after alkalinization and subsequent acidification of the antrum or duodenum. For the alkalinization of the antrum, a strong (sodium-hydroxide) and a weaker alkaline stimulus were used in different subjects. At the end of the experiments, glycine 5% was infused into antrum and glycine 5% or phenylalanine 0.1 N into the duodenum. Plasma samples were drawn for determination of the motilin levels. Although in some experimental situations, motilin levels and LES pressure were significantly correlated, any correlation was lacking in other test situations. It may be concluded that the role of endogenous motilin for the regulation of the LES pressure is either non-existent or frequently overwhelmed by other influences.
The polymerization of thrombin and ancrod fibrin monomers was studied with a standardized technique that evaluated turbidity changes and protein incorporation into the clot. Ancrod fibrin monomers were found to polymerize more slowly and form less turbid clots (at identical protein concentrations). Changes in ionic strength and pH influences ancrod fibrin monomer polymerization to a greater extent than thrombin fibrin monomer polymerization. Benzyltriethylammonium chloride was shown to be a potent inhibitor of fibrin monomer polymerization, with a greater inhibitory effect on ancrod fibrin monomers than on thrombin fibrin monomers. The differences between ancrod and thrombin fibrin may play a role in the infrequent thrombotic complications reported with ancrod therapy.
The melting temperature of isoaccepting tRNAfMet is affected by Ampholine. The plot of Tm versus the logarithm of Ampholine concentration shows clearly an increasing effect of Ampholine when the pH changes from 7.4 to 4.2. This result is interpreted as binding of Ampholine to the nucleic acid. The effects of Ampholine have been compared with those of soidum, magnesium and tetraethylene pentamine. Ampholine carrier ampholytes at pH 4.2 bind to tRNA with the same affinity as magnesium; at higher pH values they are less active. An hypothesis for the mechanism of action of Ampholine on nucleic acids during isoelectric focusing is proposed.
1. Metridium senile was studied for phosphohexose-isomerase variation at three locations on Cape Cod, Massachusetts: Woods Hole, Cape Cod Canal, and Barnstable Town Boat Harbor. 2. All three locations exhibited significant polymorphism for PHI. 3. Mapping of individual polyps was performed at Barnstable to analyze spatial distributions of clones and genotypes. 4. In Barnstable, PHI does not depart significantly from Hardy-Weinberg expectations at the time of establishment of new polyps, and establishment of larvae is spatially random with respect to PHI genotype. 5. Asexual reproduction was uses as a meausre of the relative success of different PHI genotypes. There are indications that not all genotypes are equally likely to produce large clones. 6. There is significant heterogeneity among the three locations with respect to PHI genotype frequencies, suggesting that there may be geographical differentiation of the populations. 7. Sessile, asexual organisms provide powerful tools for examining the dynamic aspects of genetic structure in natural populations.
The inhibitory effect of certain electrolytes and buffers on the copper catalysed autoxidation of N-hydroxyphentermine (2-hydroxylamino-2-methyl-1-phenylpropane) has been investigated. The presence of ions such as SO4(2-), Cl- or Br- markedly reduced the rate of oxidation. Phosphate and carbonate buffers had a similar effect with halides and phosphate buffers being the most inhibitory. The occurence of 2-methyl-2-nitro-1-phenylpropane and 2-methyl-1-phenylpropene-(1) as secondary oxidation products was also established.
To assess possible coronary vasoconstriction in patients with ischemic heart disease, we measured coronary vascular resistance in 12 patients with normal hearts and 12 with coronary disease before and during the initial 50 seconds of cold pressor test, a stimulus known to produce systemic vasoconstriction. Control coronary vascular resistance was similar in the two groups, and although it did not change in patients with normal vessels, it rose by 27 per cent (P less than 0.005) in the group with coronary disease during the cold pressor test. In three of 12 patients with coronary disease coronary flow actually declined despite an increase in arterial pressure; in four, angina was precipitated. Phentolamine abolished increases in arterial pressure and coronary vascular resistance during the test in three patients with coronary disease. Adrenergically mediated coronary vascular tone may be an important determinant of coronary blood flow and may contribute to ischemia in patients with coronary disease.
The disposition and metabolism of 6,11-dihydro-11-oxodibenz[be]oxepin-2-acetic acid (isoxepac), a new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, has been studied in rat, rabbit, dog, rhesus monkey, and man. Animals were given single oral or parenteral doses of 5 or 50 mg/kg; man received approximately 3 mg/kg orally. Fecal excretion of radioactivity occurred in the rat (26--37%) and dog (33--49%), whereas in the other species elimination was mainly urinary (less than 83%). Biliary excretion accounted for 18--52% of the dose in the rat and dog. Enterohepatic circulation was demonstrated in both species. Plasma of all species was found to contain mainly unchanged isoxepac. The compound was rapidly eliminated from plasma of dog, rhesus monkey and man, but was more slowly eliminated in rat and rabbit. In the rabbit and dog the principal metabolites were the glycine and taurine conjugates of isoxepac, respectively, whereas in the rhesus monkey and man, isoxepac was excreted unchanged or as the glucuronide.
cAMP phosphodiesterase activity is discovered in supernatant of R. rubrum cell homogenate after centrifugation at 1000 g. The enzyme is highly active (5.62 nmoles/mg of protein per 1 min) at a broad pH range--from 7.0 to 9.0. The enzyme activity is strongly inhibited with caffeine and dithiotreitol and very significantly inhibited by ascorbic acid. The dependence of the enzyme activity on the incubation time and protein and substrate concentrations in the reaction mixture is estimated. cAMP phosphodiesterase is found in soluble fraction and in particule fractions sedimenting at 30 000 g. The enzyme activity is completely absent in washed chromatophores sedimenting at 160 000 g.
Studies were performed to characterize the previously reported particulate O2--forming system from human neutrophils. Of eight reducing agents examined, including glutathione, ascorbic acid, and intermediates of the glycolytic and hexose monophosphate shunt pathways, only the pyridine nucleotides could serve as electron donors. At 0.1 mM pyridine nucleotide, O2- production was relatively independent of pH. The Km for NADH was approximately 0.7 mM regardless of pH, while with NADPH the Km varied from 0.02 mM at pH 6.0 to 0.3 mM at pH 7.5. The molar ratio of NADPH oxidized to O2- produced was consistent with the reaction: NADPH + 2 O2- leads to NADP+ H+; the product nucleotide was shown enzymatically to be NADP. O2- production was not inhibited by CN-, Na-, EDTA, or 1,10-phenanthroline. Particulate O2- production accounted for 35% of the oxygen taken up during the respiratory burst by an equivalent number of intact neutrophils. Greatly diminished O2- production was seen with particles prepared from cells obtained from three patients with chronic granulomatous disease, with 2.5 mM NADPH as electron donor. With 5.0 mM NADH similar observations were made with particles from two of the patients, but with this nucelotide, O2- production was only slightly reduced in the third case. The evidence available suggests that this particulate O2- -forming system is the one responsible for the respiratory burst in activated neutrophils. The relationship between this system and other O2- -forming system found in human neutrophils is discussed.
The effects of changes in the pH of Tyrode's solution on the responses of isolated guinea pig ileum preparation to acetylcholine and histamine were studied. At higher levels of pH (increased alkalinity), the responses of the tissue to both acetylcholine and histamine were increased. At lower pH levels (increased acidity), the response of the tissue to acetylcholine was increased but that to histamine was reduced.
Premature labour is best treated in a special ward, the tocolysis ward. From 1972 to 1975 there were around 8% premature deliveries. During the first six months of 1976 there were still around 8% premature deliveries. During the second six months of 1976 the premature rate was lowered to 6% in the tocolysis ward. This is a decrease of the 25%.
We evaluated the effects of dietary PO4 restriction on 25-OH-Vitamin D3 metabolism, serum iPTH levels, and mineral balances in healthy women and men. PO4 balances were progressively negative because of fecal losses without sex difference. Turnover of the plasma 25-OH-D pool was increased from 5.8 +/- 0.4 to 12 +/- 1.2 nmol/day; P less than 0.001, despite a fall in serum iPTH of -1.1 +/- 0.3 mulEq/ml; P less than 0.01. In both sexes, net intestinal calcium and magnesium absorption increased in proportion to a more rapid turnover of the plasma 25-OH-D pool, implying increased renal 1,25-(OH)2-D3 production. By contrast, there was a striking sex difference in the response of serum PO4 to dietary PO4 deprivation; the levels falling progressively in women, but remaining at control levels in men. Women demonstrated progressive hypercalciuria and negative Ca balances while in men the increments in intestinal Ca absorption were approximately matched by the increments in urinary Ca excretion so that Ca balances were not different from zero.
The outcome of a standard four-day intensive symptomatic treatment programme with 39 agoraphobics is examined in relation to the incidence of fresh symptom emergence. Twenty-six patients suffered fresh symptom emergence during follow-up, and there was a significant association of fresh symptom emergence with poorer outcome at one-year follow-up. About 18 percent of patients were adversely affected by the treatment programme, as judged on a wide range of symptoms and measures of inter- and intra-personal adjustment. Sixteen individually treated patients are then compared with the 39 group-treated patients and differences in drop-out rate are discussed.
The oxygen-dependent photooxidation of NADPH in the presence of hematoporphyrin in D2O results in the production of enzymatically active NADP+. The reaction is not inhibited by benzoate, mannitol, superoxide dismutase, or catalase. Moreover, addition of either potassium superoxide or H2O2 does not potentiate the reaction. This suggests OH-, H2O2, and O-2 are not likely to be the reactive oxygen species in this system. The oxidation is inhibited by various singlet oxygen quenchers and inhibitors such as 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane, 2,5-dimethylfuran plus methanol, histidine, and methionine. In addition, the rate of oxidation in H2O is less than one-fifth of that in D2O. The results suggest a singlet oxygen-mediated process. During the oxidation, no superoxide radical production could be detected with either ferricytochrome c or nitroblue tetrazolium. However, H2O2 has been found as one of the products. These observations are consistent with an oxidation-reduction reaction between singlet oxygen and NADPH to form H2O2 and NADP+, catalyzed by the light-activated photosensitizer hematoporphyrin.
Freshly prepared solutions of prostaglandin E1 exhibit chemotactic activity against rabbit polymorphonuclear leucocytes harvested from the peritoneal cavity but are devoid of such activity either against similar cells obtained from the rat or against polymorphonuclear leucocytes obtained from the blood of the rabbit, rat and man. Some implications of these findings with respect to the development of inflammatory responses and the mode of action of non-steroidal acidic anti-inflammatory drugs are discussed.
After summarizing the phenomena of respiratory physiology involved in the hyperpnea test, the author studies the quantitative relation between the drop in PECO2 (pressure of CO2 in expired air) and changes in the EEG during hyperpnea. Normal subjects are divided into two groups of a hundred (6 to 19 1/2 years of age; 20 to 59 1/2 years of age). The PECO2 at rest is higher among the young subjects than among the adults, and its decline during hyperpnea is sharper. Thus, children show discrete respiratory acidosis in comparison with adults. The EEG of normal adults is practically unchanged during hyperpnea whereas, in the young group, moderate changes in the profile were observed in 45 out of 100 cases (classified empirically as normal). The PECO2 reaches a lower level in subjects showing EEG changes than in those showing none. All the reported differences are statistically significant (p less than 0.01). The probability of hyperpnea modifying the EEG profile becomes progressively less with age, and may be related to the reduced production of CO2 in older subjects. Epileptic subjects (primary generalized epilepsy) produce more CO2 than normal subjects during the hyperpnea test. The statistical data reported in the study show the importance of the size of the drop in ventilatory CO2 in the determination of EEG changes. The rest of hyperpnea in EEG can therefore be validly interpreted only if capnographic variations are measured. A standard quantitative hyperpnea test of this type should be devised, with specification of the hypocapnia level to be achieved.
Hypercapnic acidosis (pH 7.0) inhibits the lipolytic response of canine subcutaneous adipose tissue to i.v. infused noradrenaline (NA) by 80 per cent or more. The response to sympathetic nerve stimulation, on the other hand, is only reduced by 10-40 per cent during acidosis. The fate of intravenously infused 3H-labelled NA (0.35 ug X kg-1 X min-1 for 30 min) was not significantly altered by acidosis. The rate of disappearance of unmetabolized NA from the arterial plasma after an infusion was the same at pH 7.4 and 7.0 and the calculated increase in circulating NA during infusions was 4 ng/ml at both pH:s. I.v. infusion of Na increases adipose tissue blood flow, an effect which is attenuated by acidosis. There was a significant correlation (p less than 0.001) between adipose tissue blood flow and the lipolytic response at normal pH. Preventing the NA-induced increase in blood flow by constant flow perfusion reduced the lipolytic response at normal pH. The degree of inhibition by acidosis of the lipolytic response to i.v. NA was significantly reduced (from 79 to 56 per cent, p less than 0.05) when the adipose tissue was perfused at constant flow. These data suggest that adipose tissue blood flow is important in determining the lipolytic response to i.v. NA, probably by influencing the delivery of NA to the tissue. The marked inhibition by acidosis of lipolysis due to i.v. infused NA therefore appears to be the combined effect of a direct antilipolytic effect of acidosis and a decreased delivery of NA to the adipose tissue due to the attenuated blood flow response.
Compounds of fluorine and Si or Fe are found in nature and are sometimes formed from F ions in the stomach. The chemistry of the release of resorbable F ions from such compounds in the intestinal tract is described. To demonstrate fluorine availability at the enamel surface daily profiles of fluorine concentration in the saliva of seven subjects after a single administration of a NaF and Na3FeF6 tablet are presented and their effect on the remineralization of the dental enamel described.
Bacterial luciferase and NAD(P)H: FMN oxidoreductase isolated from Beneckea harveyi were covalently linked via diazotization to arylamine porous glass beads which had been cemented onto plain glass rods. These immobilized enzymes are individually active and also function to produce light via a coupled reaction utilizing NADH or NADPH. These enzymes have properties similar to the soluble forms with regard to pH and substrate optima and also exhibit linearity in peak intensity of the initial flash of light emitted as a function of NADH or NADPH concentration. Linearity with NADH is obtained in the range of 1 pmol to 50 nmol, and between 10 pmol to 200 nmol for NADPH. The bound enzymes are stable and reusable. This immobilized system offers a rapid and inexpensive m
Suspension cultures of neoplastic mouse mast cells were used to obtain large quantities of a homogeneous cell population as starting material for cell fractionation. A Golgi fraction was prepared by slight modification of established techniques and identified by electron microscopy. Assay of galactosyl transferase activity using ovalbumin, desialylated degalactosylated orosomucoid, and N-acetylglucosamine as galactose acceptors showed that the Golgi fraction was enriched in specific activity over the homogenate. The Golgi galactosyl transferase was examined in detail. Acceptor concentrations for optimal galactose incorporation were determined, and substrate inhibition effects were shown with higher concentrations of all three acceptors. Manganese was shown to be necessary for galactose incorporation. A higher concentration of manganese afforded some protection from substrate inhibition by acceptors, but at the same time was itself inhibitory. All three acceptors competed with one another for galactose incorporation, indicating that a single enzyme catalyzed the transfer of galactose for all acceptors.
Variants of HTC cells showing little or no induction of tyrosine aminotransferase in response to glucorticoids have been isolated by repeated cloning without deliberate selective pressures. In this paper, the derivation and some properties of these cells, compared with both high-inducing clones and wild-type cells, are described. The non-inducing cells all grew well, and were not induced even by unusually high concentrations of steroid. The enzyme activity had a normal half-life of decay and heat inactivation. It was inactivated by antiserum against authentic tyrosine aminotransferase, and no evidence for antigenically active, enzymatically inactive enzyme was found. No great variability was seen in the few other enzyme activities tested. Glucorticoid receptors were present in all the clones, With respect to concentration, cellular uptake, cell-free binding to nuclei and intracellular localiztion, no differences were found between the receptors of inducible and non-inducible clones. These are the first cells derived from an inducible type to be characterized as having normal receptor while becoming steroid resistant. They appear to be blocked in a late step of the response to the steroid, and therefore may prove useful in analyzing these later steps.
Dyhydrodipicolinate reductases were purified 100-fold from crude extracts of B. cereus and B. megaterium and their properties were compared with those of the reductase from B. subtilis. The molecular weights of the reductases of B. cereus and B. megaterium were fount to be 155,000 and 150,000, respectively. These reductases were shown to be free of flavin, unlike the B. subtilis enzyme, which contains flavin. Both NADPH and NADH acted as coenzymes for these two reductases. NADPH being three or four times more effective than NADH. The Km values for NADPH and dihydrodipicolinate were 8 micrometer and 62 micrometer, respectively, with B. cereus reductase, and 13 micrometer and 59 micrometer with B. megaterium reductase. The pH optima of the enzymes from B. cereus and B. megaterium were pH 7.4 and 7.2, respectively. The reductases were inhibited by dipicolinate noncompetitively with respect to dihydrodipicolinate and the Ki values were 85 micrometer and 140 micrometer, respectively. Lysine and diaminopimelate were not inhibitory. The properties of the reductases from B. cereus and B. megaterium were similar, but they differed considerably from those of the B. subtilis enzyme. However, all three Bacillus reductases were markedly inhibited by dipicolinate, unlike the enzyme from E. coli.
Adult male Sprague Dalwey rats on which end-to-side portacaval shunt (PCS) operation was performed did not hyperplastic nodules and hepatoms when they were fed 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene in semisynthetic basal diet for periods of up to 169 days. In contrast, all the intact rats fed the same diet for only 75 days, developed hyperplastic nodules in the liver. Transferred to normal pellet for another 25 days, hepatomas developed in 100% of these animals. The amount of protein-bond 3'-Me-DAB was found to be much smaller in operated rats than in intact animals. The glutathione (GSH) level in PCS-operated rats was lower than in intact controsl. A single large dose of 3'-Me-DAB led to the increase of only about 30% in the concentration of GSH during the period of 24-48 h, compared to the increase of 50-100% in non-operated rats. No clear tendency to a gradual increase in the activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was noted in PCS-operated rats during the period of 5 1/2 months of 3'-Me-DAB feeding. The increase in GT-ase activity never exceeded 30% above the level of GT-ase in the livers of PCS-operated rats fed basal diet without the carcinogen. This striking inhibibiton of GT-ase increase induced by 3'Me-DAB in PCS-operated rats contrasted with an increase of GI-ase activity by 5,000% found in livers of non-operated rats with hyperplastic nodules after 75 days of 3'-Me-DAB feeding and the increase by up to 10,000% in developed hepatomas. These effects and the inhibition of 3'Me-DAB-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, manifested by lack preneoplastic morphologic changes and the absecnce of hepatomas in rats after PCS, can best be explained by functional deficiency of the liver to metabolize the procarcinogen 3'-Me-DAB into an activated carcinogen.
A case of a malignant undifferentiated germ cell tumor in situ of an undescended testis diagnosed by needle biopsy is described. Four similar cases have been so far recorded in the literature, all of them in the infertile men with normally descended descended testes. Two of them developed embryonal carcinoma of testis 4 1/2 later and one had a concomitant seminoma. In a high-risk group of patients (atrophic testis, cryptorchidism), a needle biopsy of a testicle may discover malignancy in its very early phase of development (Stage 0), at which time an orchiectomy alone may be a curative treatment.
The antidepressant drug amitriptyline and two of its metabolites, nortriptyline and desmethylnortriptyline, each containing two 13C atoms, have been used to determine the sensitivity and selectivity of 13C-nmr spectroscopy for the detection of unchanged amitriptyline and N-desmethyl metabolites in the urine of animals dosed orally with the labelled drug. The resonance signals from the 13C atoms detected in the 13C-nmr spectrum of entire extract from a control 12 h rat urine sample to which 1 mg of each labelled compound had been added were easily detected, using an instrument accumulation time of 1 h. The 13C-nmr spectrum of an extract of hydrolysed urine from a dog that had received an oral dose of  [13C2]amitriptyline (30mg) exhibited signals that could be assigned to metabolites resulting from N-dealkylation and N-oxidation, as well as those bearing the intact amitriptyline side-chain. These assignments were confirmed by analysis of the same extract by g.c.--ms and h.p.l.c.
Rats were trained in a two-choice discrete trial avoidance paradigm to discriminate between saline and 3.0 mg/kg of morphine. Behavior was considered to be under stimulus ocntrol when the rats completed at least 90% of the trials in a 20-trial session on the morphine-appropriate choice lever after receiving morphine and when they completed at least 90% of the trials on the saline-appropriate choice lever after receiving saline. The discriminative effects of morphine, measured by responding on the morphine-appropriate lever, were then evaluated by determining the dose-response characteristics of representative narcotic analgesics, analgesics with mixed agonist and narcotic antagonist properties and nonopioid psychoactive drugs. Eight narcotic analgesics each produced dose-related responding on the morphine-appropriate lever. The relative potency for producing discriminative effects equivalent to those produced by 3.0 mg/kg of morphine ranged form etonitazene = 1000 x morphine to propoxyphene = 0.0175 x morphine. Of the narcotic antagonist analgesics tested, butorphanol and nalmexone produced discriminative effects equivalent to those of the morphine training dose whereas nalorphine, levallorphan, oxilorphan, nalbuphine and ketocyclazocine did not. The nonopioid psychoactive drugs, mescaline, ketamine, physostigmine and scopolamine, also failed to produce discriminative effect equivalent to those produced by 3.0 mg/kg of morphine. These results confirm and extend our previous findings that of those drugs which have also been evaluated in man, discriminative effects equivalent to the training dose of morphine are produced uniquely by narcotic analgesics and narcotic antagonists which produce morphine-like subjective effects. These results are compatible with the hypothesis that the properties of morphine which enable it to function as a discriminative stimulus in the rat are analogous to those responsible for producing subjective effects in man.
In order to obtain information on the nature of the amino acid residues involved in the activity of ribonuclease U1 [EC 3.1.4.8], various chemical modifications of the enzyme were carried out. RNase U1 was inactivated by reaction with iodoacetate at pH 5.5 with concomitant incorporation of 1 carboxymethyl group per molecule of the enzyme. The residue specifically modified by iodoacetate was identified as one of the glutamic acid residues, as in the case of RNase T1. The enzyme was also inactivated extensively by reaction with iodoacetamide at pH 8.0 with the loss of about one residue each of histidine and lysine. When RNase U1 was treated with a large excess of phenylglyoxal, the enzymatic activity and binding ability toward 3'-GMP were lost, with simultaneous modification of about 1 residue of arginine. The reaction of citraconic anhydride with RNase U1 led to the loss of enzymatic activity and modification of about 1 residue of lysine. The inactivated enzyme, however, retained binding ability toward 3'-GMP. These results indicate that there are marked similarities in the active sites of RNases T1 and U1.
The absence of any known reference in the medical literature to lacerations of the plantar aspect of the foot prompted the author to send an questionnaire to members of the American Orthopaedic Foot Society and Association of Bone and Joint Surgeons asking each one to outline his treatment for various combinations of lacerations of the flexor tendons and plantar nerves in a group of patients with varied ages and occupations. To simplify results, only clean wounds satisfactory for immediate surgery were considered. A majority of surgeons preferred primary repair of a lacerated flexor hallucis longus tendon or extensive laceration of all flexor tendons and nerves but were equally divided between repair and non-repair of flexor tendons and plantar nerves of the middle three toes. A majority of surgeons preferred not to repair isolated lacerations of flexor tendons other than the flexor hallucis longus. Most surgeons electing to repair the structures preferred to approach them through the original plantar laceration rather than through an accessory incision in the non weight-bearing portion of the foot.
Acetylsalicylic acid hydrolase activity of rabbit fundic gastric mucosa has been isolated from the soluble 100,000 X g supernate. The enzymatic activity was partially purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation. The Km for acetylsalicylate was 2 mM and pH optimum was 8.6. The activity was insensitive to ionic strength, slightly inhibited by inclusion of 100 mM Cl-, and demonstrated no requirement for Ca2+ or Mg2+. Acetylsalicylic acid esterase was markedly inhibited by sodium cholate and sodium dodecyl sulfate. The enzyme was insensitive to sulfhydryl reagents with the exception of p-chloromercuribenzenesulfonic acid, which markedly inhibited the enzyme. Diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP) inhibited enzymatic activity with a Ki of 9 X 10(-9)M. Eserine was also inhibitory with a Ki of 0.25 mM. Inhibition by DFP at low concentration and by eserine at millimolar concentrations suggests that this enzyme is related to the group of aliphatic esterases. Identification of potent inhibitors will enable studies to define the role of this enzyme with the use of experimental preparations in which systemic toxicity can be avoided.
Diuretic effects of seven orally-acting diuretic agents have been examined in the mouse. The following compounds, examples of various types of orally active compound available, produced their characteristic diuretic effects: bendrofluazide, frusemide, ethacrynic acid, acetazolamide, triamterene, aminophylline and Su 15049A. The diuretic effects of the various agents were demonstrated under both water and saline-loading conditions. After allowing for differences in baseline sodium excretion, all diuretics except acetazolamide caused a further enhancement of sodium excretion after saline-loading compared with water-loading tests. The mouse possesses several advantages over the more commonly used rat since the range of diuretic responsiveness is greater. These results suggest that the mouse is a suitable species for diuretic testing.
Micromolar concentrations of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) were able to increase the amplitude of the end-plate current in frog neuromuscular junction blocked either by d-tubocurarine or by low Ca++ high Mg++ medium. The end-plate potential was also increased. These effects were reversible. The changes in the end-plate current amplitude observed after 4-AP treatment had no effect on the end-plate current time course. There was no significant difference in the resting membrane potential or mean amplitude and frequency of spontaneous miniature end-plate potentials in the presence of 4-AP. The quantal content of the end-plate potential was increased in every preparation tested and the minimal synpatic delay was lengthened in a dose-related way. 4-AP did not modify the dependence of the amplitude of the end-plate current on membrane potential. In the presence of 4-AP, the time constant of the falling phase of the end-plate current remained an exponential function of the membrane potential. The end-plate current equilibrium potential was unaffected by 4-AP. The increase in the amount of acetylcholine released by nerve impulse induced by 4-AP occurs without modification in the calcium cooperativity. The authors suggest that 4-AP, by prolonging the presynaptic action potential, could increase calcium concentration in the nerve terminal and, thus, the transmitter release.
From field bean protein and a mixture of field bean protein with casein to equal parts are prepared with sodium hydroxide high protein-containing alkaline solutions, which show pseudoplastic flow. The flow curves of the pseudoplastic field bean protein-casein (I:I)-solutions are described mathematically with the Ostwaldian power statement. In a suitable scope of spinning of this solutions are carried out complete factorial experiments, which guide to regression equations of lg k and n. g k depends on the concentration of protein; an effect of the sodium hydroxide concentration exists lonly about interactions. On the other hand the flow exponent n depends on the hydroxide concentration. The properties of the spun field bean protein/casein (I:I) fibres are described.
RMI 14, 514 ([5-tetradecycloxy]-2-furancarboxylic acid) represents a new class of hypolipidemic agents which cause unusual ultrastructural changes in liver of male rats and in selected peroxisomal enzymes in liver and kidney of both sexes. Among the principal ultrastructural changes in peroxisomes of male rat liver were (a) cavitation and compartmentalization of the matrix, often giving the appearance of a peroxisome-within-a-peroxisome, and (b) narrow, dense extensions of canaliculi or cisterns from the  periphery of the peroxisome, forming partial circlets or surrounding irregular areas of cytoplasm. The unusual enzyme responses were (a) elevation of catalase activity in liver and kidney in female rats, (b) increased activity of three hydrogen peroxide-producing oxidases (urate oxidase, L-alpha-hydroxy acid oxidase, and D-amino acid oxidase) in the liver of both sexes, and (c) elevation of activity of the last two oxidases in male kidney. The peculiar ultrastructural changes in liver peroxisomes combined with the responses of selected peroxisomal enzymes represent unusual modulations or adaptations of these organelles to a hypolipidemic agent, the effects of which have not been reported extensively.
A case of carcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube in a 55-year-old woman, associated to cervical carcinoma is described. The necessary criteria for the diagnosis of pre-invasive carcinoma of the fallopian tube, among which the number of mitoses seems to be of great importance, are discussed. This previously unreported association of carcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube, with carcinoma of the uterine cervix, emphasizes the notion of the multicentric neoplastic possibilities of the mllerian tract derivatives.
We describe a simplified technique for the histochemical determination of three fiber types from a single section of skeletal muscle. Preincubation in a solution of formaldehyde, glycine, and calcium followed by routine myofibrillar adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) incubation clearly differentiates type I, type IIA, and IIB fibers in human, rat, rabbit, and porcine muscle. In addition, glycine-formaldehyde-calcium preincubation offers better preservation of cytoarchitecture and standardization of incubation time.
Solid-state anomalies in the IR spectra of lysine monohydrochloride, etoxadrol hydrochloride, thiamine hydrochloride, and L-histidine in a potassium bromide matrix were noted. With the first three compounds, the anomalies were due to metathetical exchange of the halide anion between the compound and the matrix. The anomaly seen with L-histidine was related to the crystal structure.
The stability and interaction at 29 degrees C of ampicillin, carbenicillin, gentamicin, and polymyxin B were examined in a common electrolyte solution, invertose darrow, and in two synthetic l-amino acid solutions, one commercial (vamin with fructose; Vitrum) and the other a neonatal preparation modified for use in newborn infants. The concentration of amino acids was measured before and after the addition of these antibiotics. The concentration of antibiotics was measured over a 24-h period with a microbiological method. The concentration of ampicillin in invertose darrow fell 52%, and in vamin with fructose it fell 69%, whereas in the neonatal preparation the fall was only 22%. The concentration of carbenicillin in vamin with fructose fell 37%, and in the neonatal preparation it fell 31%. The combination of ampicillin or carbenicillin with gentamicin or polymyxin B did not influence the activity of the penicillins. The concentration of gentamicin and polymyxin B was unchanged in all solutions over a 24-h period. With the exception of cystine, the concentration of all amino acids remained constant after 24 h in the neonatal preparation with and without the different combinations of antibiotics. For cystine there was a fall of 20 to 30%.
The acidic, neutral, and alkaline degradations of six therapeutically useful cephalosporins (cephalothin, cephaloridine, cephaloglycin, cephalexin, cephradine, and cefazolin), 7-amino-cephalosporanic acid, 7-aminodeacetoxycephalosporanic acid, and some 7-substituted derivatives were followed by high-pressure liquid chromatographic, UV spectrometric, iodometric, and hydroxamic acid assays. The pH-rate profiles were determined at 35 degrees and mu = 0.5. The acidic degradation pathway for the 3-acetoxymethyl and 3-pyridinylmethyl derivatives was the specific hydrogen-ion-catalyzed hydrolysis of the beta-lactam bonds. The beta-lactam hydrolyses of these antibiotics exhibited half-lives of about 25 hr at pH 1.0 and 35 degrees. The acetyl functions of 3-acetoxymethylcephalosporins were hydrolyzed eight times faster than their beta-lactam moieties to yield the corresponding deacetyl intermediates, which were rapidly converted to the lactones. Deacetoxycephalosporins were fairly acid stable; e.g., cephalexin and cephradine were about 25 times more stable than cephalothin, cephaloridine, and cephaloglycin and about 180 times more stable than ampicillin at pH 1.0. In the neutral degradation of 3-acetoxymethyl compounds, the competitive reactions of the direct water attack and intramolecular catalysis by the side-chain amido upon the beta-lactams were proposed. The pH-rate profiles near pH 8 for cephaloglycin, cephalexin, and cephradine could be explained by the intramolecular-nucleophilic attack of the side-chain alpha-amino group upon the beta-lactam carbonyls to produce diketopiperazine-type compounds. The reactivity of the cephalosporins in the hydroxideion-catalyzed degradation was influenced significantly by the C-3 methylene substituents.
1. The effect of the extracellular calcium and magnesium concentrations and calcium ionophore, X-537A, on the frequency of miniature excitatory post-synaptic potentials (MEPSPs) was studied in cockroach leg muscle fibres. 2. The frequency of MEPSPs increased as the calcium concentration was increased from 0.1 to 10 mM. In the presence of 10 mM magnesium, however, raising the calcium concentration from 0.1 to 1 mM slightly depressed the frequency. In saline containing elevated potassium (20.8 mM), increasing the calcium concentration produced a much higher frequency than that in the normal potassium saline (10.8 mM) in the absence of magnesium. Raising the extracellular potassium concentration was without effect unless the bathing solution contained calcium. 3. The frequency of the miniature potentials was reduced as the magnesium concentration was raised from 0 to 10 mM, depending on the presence of calcium ions. On the contrary, a slightly increased frequency was observed in the low calcium saline as the magnesium concentration was raised from 1 to 10 mM. The reciprocal relationship between calcium and magnesium and the time course of the effect suggest that both ions act at the same surface sites in the presynaptic membrane. 4. X-537A elicited a transient increase in frequency followed by a fall of the frequency to a very low rate. Further application of the ionophore was without effect. The effect of X-537A on the spontaneous release of transmitter at the insect neuromuscular junction was comparable with that on the spontaneous acetylcholine release in vertebrate neuromuscular junctions.
Behavioural analysis and psychodynamic hypotheses were used to develop a comprehensive behaviour modification programme for the treatment of primary anorexia nervosa. This was applied to six female patients and the results obtained are reported.
The effects of diphenhydramine and diphenhydramine plus ethanol on response to intradermal histamine and on mental performance were assessed in twelve male volunteers. A significant impairment of histamine skin response was found with diphenhydramine. This response was unaffected by ethanol. Ethanol improved performance with a tracking test compared with diphenhydramine alone, the effect was not potentiated by the combination. None of the treatments had a significant effect on a digit symbol substitution test. Co-administration of ethanol and diphenhydramine caused greater impairment of performance in a serial seven subtraction test than diphenhydramine alone. There was no correlation between central and peripheral effects of the antihistamine.
The quantitative determination of perazine, a neuroleptic drug, and its metabolites in body fluids is difficult in view of the low concentrations to be expected under therapeutic conditions as well as of the problem of convenient detectors. Different methods for extraction and measurement of perazine concentration in blood samples are discussed, with special consideration of partition coefficients and the properties of the chromatographic systems (thin-layer and gas-liquid chromatography). A new and simple method for rapid gas chromatographic determination of perazine is presented.
1. Transtubular potential differences and specific resistances were measured in rat proximal tubules by means of single and double barrelled glass micro-electrodes. 2. Tip localization was made by observation of effective resistance changes measured with double barrelled micro-electrodes upon passage of oil droplets, and by perfusion with choline C1. 3. Mean early proximal p.d.s. of the order of -1 to -2 mV,  and late values of +0-5 to +1mV were found. Mean specific resistances ranged from 12 to 15 omega cm2. 4. Diffusion potentials and single ion relative conductances were evaluated, perfusing the lumen with solutions differing only with respect to one salt concentration. Na and K conductances were similar and greater than those of C1. 5. Luminal and peritubular perfusions with hypotonic solutions showed the occurrence of streaming potentials in this structure suggesting the existence of pores lined with negative charges. The effective diameter of these pores appeared to be reduced by hypotonic perfusion, as evidenced by a significant increase in resistance, indicating that the main ion path across this structure is represented by intercellular spaces.
Pre- and post-transplant bone marrow samples from 20 patients with aplastic anemia were studied. Morphologic evidence of marrow reconstitution was noted in 18 patients one to three weeks following transplantation. In most instances the engrafted marrow elements in early weeks appeared as small clusters of erythroid or myeloid precursors. Bone marrow biopsy or clot sections obtained four to eight weeks after transplantation were more cellular with larger clusters of hematopoietic cells, which were most often composed of mixed cellular elements, including megakaryocytes. Two patients with morphologic evidence of engraftment died shortly after transplantation and were excluded from further analysis. In four of the remaining 16 patients grafts were "rejected" three to eight weeks after transplant. A fifth patient who received a marrow graft from his identical twin showed a transient increase in marrow cellularity without clinical improvement. However, the second marrow transplantation in this patient using the same donor after conditioning with cyclophosphamide resulted in moderate clinical improvement. In four of the five patients developing graft "rejection" or failure there was an increase in marrow mast cells in pre- and post-transplant marrow samples. In contrast, only two of 11 patients with successful engraftment had an increase in mast cells. Although the pathophysiologic role of mast cells in marrow transplantation is unclear, the present study suggests a possible inverse correlation between the numbers of marrow mast cells and the likelihood of successful engraftment. Bone marrow samples in patients with graft versus host disease displayed a slight increase in the number of eosinophils, lymphocytes, and plasma cells.
Some properties of purified endo-1,4-beta-D-xylanase (1,4-beta-D-xylan xylanohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.8) from the ligniperdous fungus Trametes hirsuta were investigated. The enzyme was stable between pH 4.0 and 8.0 were optimum activity at pH 5.0--5.5. The temperature optimum was 50 degrees C and the enzyme was stable for up to 30 min at 45 degrees C; however, it was denatured at higher temperatures. The Km for 4-O-methylglucurono-D-xylan was 6.36.10(-3) equivalents of D-xylose per litre, the activation energy was 28 kJ mol-1. The molecular weight determined by means of gel chromatography was 22000--24000. The enzyme was activated by Ca2+ and inhibited by Ag+ and Hg2+. On the basis of the effect of 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl bromide. N-bromosuccinimide and N-acetylimidazole it may be assumed that trytophan and possibly tyrosine residues influence the enzyme catalysis.
The application of kallikrein--a kinin-releasing porcine pancreatic kininogenase--exerted considerable stimulation of bull sperm motility in vitro. The kallikrein was used in two concentrations: 1 and 100 KU/ml semen. Both concentrations gave similar effect: at the 4th hour of incubation at room temperature the motility rate of spermatozoa exceeded five and four times, respectively, that of the control samples. Higher penetrating ability of bull spermatozoa in cow's estral secretion was also recorded in the experimental samples treated with kallikrein in both concentrations at the 2nd and 4th hour of incubation in comparison with the controls.
The hypothesis that a neural depressive action is related to the antihypertensive effects of beta blockers has been evaluated in 14 essential hypertensive male patients through the circulatory response to noxious stimuli. The pressor reaction to mental arithmetic was primarily mediated by cardiac stimulation (beta receptors activation), that to cold by vasoconstriction (alpha receptors activation). Arithmetic and cold were tested to separate the effects of peripheral beta blackade from possible neural and other influences. After propanolol (320 mg per day for 3 wk): (1) The baseline pressure was reduced; (2) appearance, peak, and disappearance time of the circulatory reaction to either stimulus was not altered; (3) the pressor effect of arithmetic was decreased in an extent proportional to the reduced rise of cardiac output; and (4) pressure during cold reached the pretreatment levels through an augmented increase of vascular resistance. Our findings indicate that propranolol depresses only the circulatory reactions mediated through beta receptors activation and provide no evidence of effects other than beta blockade.
The gastric acid output was studied in the 11 patients of hyperparathyroidism before and after parathyroidectomy. The gastric acid output before operation was almost equal to the normal control in our hospital. After the correction of serum calcium by parathyroidectomy, the gastric acid output and serum gastrin were decreased. The decreased gastric acid output was recovered as the days passed since operation and approached to the preoperative level. The acid output in hyperparathyroidism was less in the case whose activity of alkaline phosphatase was more, which suggested that the calcium deposition on gastric mucosa might damage the parietal cell as the result of long lasting hypercalcemia.
phi 227, a temperate phage from a group H streptococcus (Streptococcus sanguis), was propagated vegetatively in group H strain Wicky 4-EryR, and its characteristics were determined. A procedure dependent on multiplicity of infection, incubation time, and treatment of crude lysates with diatomaceous earth was found to optimize phage yield, resulting in titers of 1 X 10(10) to 2 X 10(10) PFU/ml. Without prior treatment with diatomaceous earth, subsequent purification procedures (methanol, ammonium sulfate, polyethylene glycol) gave recoveries of less than 1% of crude lysate titers. Adsorption of phi227 to host cells was relatively unaffected by the medium, but calcium (not substituted by magnesium) was required for formation of infectious centers. The phage receptor was present on purified cell walls, resisted trypsin and heat, and was removed ty hydrochloric acid, trichloracetic acid, and hot formamide: however, formamide-extracted material failed to inactivate phage, and the nature of the receptor is unknown. Single-step growth experiments showed a latent period of 39 min and a burst size of 100 PFU/infectious center; results were unaffected by omission of supplemental Ca2+, by supplementation with Mg2, addition of glucose, or changes of pH between 6.35 and 8.0; but increased temperature (40 to 43 degrees C) shortened the latent period and decreased the burst size. The latent period was prolonged in genetically competent host cells and in chemically defined medium; and in the latter, the burst size was smaller. Phage replication was sensitive to those metabolic inhibitors which inhibited the host streptococcus: these included rifampin, fluorodeoxyuridine, hydroxyurea, dihydrostreptomycin, and 6-P-hydroxyphenylazouracil. The data suggest that phi227 does not code for a rifampin-resistant RNA polymerase. However, in a rifampin-resistant host strain, phage replication and lysogen formation were both decreased suggesting that altered host core polymerase had less affinity for (some) promotors on the phi227 template. In transfection, a Ca2+-dependent stabilization step that was inhibited by Mg2+ was demonstrated; transformation was not affected by either Ca2+ or Mg2+, and the site and nature of the stabilization are unknown. More than one molecule of DNA was required for plaque formation. Biophysical characterization showed a type B phage of buoyant density (CsCl) 1.50, containing five proteins and 54.8% DNA. The duplex linear DNA had a molecular weight (calculated from contour length) of 23.2 X 10(6) and a guanine plus cytosine content (calculated from melting point) of 42.3 mol%. Similar characterizations of streptococcal phages, including biophysical data, have not been previously available.
A 27 year old woman had in 1965, a paraneoplastic Cushing's syndrome was cured by removal of a pulmonary tumour. The case was published in June 1968. After a normal pregnancy, a recurrence of the Cushing's syndrome in 1969 led in 1970 to bilateral total adrenalectomy in two stages. Pathology showed hyperplastic adrenal glands. After 11 years follow up, we have not noted any relapse of the tumour nor of the Cushing's syndrome. The pathological appearance of the lung carcinoma removed in 1965 (endocrinoid or neuroid structures) suggests that this was an "apudoma" and that the recurrence of the Cushing's syndrome was perhaps an "apudomatosis" involving the pituitary ACTH cells.
Human erythropoietin, derived from urine of patients with aplastic anemia, has been purified to apparent homogeneity. The seven-step procedure, which included ion exchange chromatography, ethanol precipitation, gel filtration, and adsorption chromatography, yielded a preparation with a potency of 70,400 units/mg of protein in 21% yield. This represents a purification factor of 930. The purified hormone has a single electrophoretic component in polyacrylamide gels at pH 9, in the presence of sodium dodecylsulfate at pH 7, and in the presence of Triton X-100 at pH 6. Two fractions of the same potency and molecular size, by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis, but differing slightly in mobility at pH 9, were obtained at the last step of fractionation. The nature of the difference between these two components is not yet understood.
The understanding of the properties of adrenergic receptors and modification of ring and the N-alkyl side chain constituents have resulted in adrenergic agents with a high degree of specificity for the lung and few cardiac and central nervous system stimulating problems. These agents are useful by aerosol and oral routes, alone and in addition to theophylline for asthma. Theophylline, which acts to increase cyclic AMP by inhibition of phosphodiesterase and beta 2 adrenergic agents which increase cyclic AMP by stimulating adenylate cyclase, are the mainstays of asthma therapy. Therapy is usually begun with theophylline. Persistent symptoms with adequate theophylline levels (10-20 mug/ml) indicates the need for a beta 2 adrenergic agent by aerosol or orally as a supplement. Occasional patients will not tolerate theophylline in any preparation and can be treated with beta 2 adrenergic agents with success. The future holds great promise for improved and safer beta 2 adrenergic agents which will offer the physician a more effective means of treating asthma.
Although exchanges between sister chromatids are common in mitotic cells, those involving homologous chromosomes are rare. Since recombination between homologues is one of the functions of meiosis, it follows that one aspect of the differentiation of the meiocyte involves the synthesis of proteins or enzymes which facilitate synapsis and exchange. Mutants are known which seem to have constitutive levels of mitotic recombination between homologues, and these may be defective in the mechanism which normally represses mitotic recombination. It has been proposed that one component of the synaptonemal complex (s.c.) is a filamentous pairing protein with DNA binding sites which are base sequence specific. Synapsis occurs because the distribution of these sequences is the same in homologues. When only non-homologous chromosomes are present, as in haploid meiosis, only weak pairing can occur, since the base sequences are largely out of register. Although certain features of recombination at the molecular level are known, none of the models so far proposed suggest an explanation for interference between crossovers. It is suggested that interference may depend on the presence of a limited amount of another DNA binding protein which is specifically located within the s.c. A crossover between naked DNA molecules is initially a weak structure, which must be later converted into a visible and mechanically strong chiasma. It is assumed that this stabilization of a crossover is achieved by the DNA binding protein, which can diffuse freely within the s.c. and bind cooperatively to any recombinant DNA molecules within it. Depletion of the binding protein within the vicinity of a crossover makes it unlikely that the second crossover can be formed nearby.
Acetimidylation of the amino groups of alcohol dehydrogenase from human and horse liver yields several modified enzyme forms, which differ in electrophoretic mobility and can be separated by ion exchange chromatography, but which are similar in kinetic characteristics. The acetimidylated, as well as the methylated, enzymes from human livers of the normal phenotype have increased activity and larger Michaelis and inhibition constants. These results suggest that the human enzyme has amino groups at the active sites, as was shown previously for the horse enzyme. The variant subunit occuring in the enzyme isolated from atypical human livers does not seem to be activated by acetimidylation, which may indicate that substitution of proline for Ala-230 or modifiction of Lys-228 is sufficient to fully activate the enzyme. Results of product inhibition studies of native and modified human enzymes are consistent with an Ordered Bi Bi mechanism. However, the major isoenzyme of native human liver alcohol, dehydrogenase exhibits nonlinear kinetics over a wide range of ethanol concentrations. This result may indicate that subunits with different kinetic characteristics are present or that there is negative cooperativity between subunits. After chemical modification, the kinetic patterns become linear, suggesting that the mechanism is altered.
Cell-free extracts from Saccharomyces cerevisiae catalyzed the incorporation of glucosyl residues from UDP-[U-14C]glucose into beta-1,3-glucans which contained a significant proportion of beta-1,6-glycosidic linkages. When GDP-[U-14C]glucose was used as substrate only trace amounts of glucose were incorporated. Activity of beta-glucan synthetase was distributed among membrane and cell wall fractions, specific activity being higher in this latter. Beta-glucan synthesized by membrane and cell wall fractions contained 0.6% and 2.5% of beta-1,6-glycosidic linkages respectively. A marked decrease in the activity of beta-glucan synthetase occurred as the cells aged. Significant activity of glycogen synthetase was detected only in cells which had reached the stationary phase of growth.
The influence of a coffee-antazid-mixture was investigated at 30 patients with diseases of the stomach (17 with duodenal ulcer, 6 with gastric ulcer and 7 with chronic gastritis) in comparison to a commercial coffee. The parameters measured were the gastric basal acid output, the continuous registration of the pH by an intragastric electrode and the serum gastrin concentration before and after the application of the tests substances. 75% of the patients with duodenal ulcer showed a positive effect by means of a greater elevation of the intragastric pH after application of the mixture in comparison to coffee. The effect was strongly correlated to the basal acid ouptput. In the group with gastric ulcer and that with duodenal ulcer under the influence of the mixture the pH after the initial rise decreased to less deeper values. There was a close relationship to the patterns of gastric ulcer as well with chronic gastritis there was an additional facourable effect on the symptoms of abdominal pain which occured after coffee and not after the mixture. The group with chronic gastritis showed no difference between the pure coffee and the coffee-antacid-mixture. A possible relationship of the products of coffee roasting and the adsorptive properties of the antacid is discussed.
N-Ethylmaleimide (NEM) irreversibly inactivates the response of gustatory cells to stimulation by NaCl, sucrose and hydrogen ions. The rate of inactivation can be measured by monitoring the decay of NaCl-stimulated summated electrophysiological activity at the chorda tympani nerve in the presence of NEM. The observed pseudo first-order rate constants are linear with NEM concentration, and the second-order rate constant is 0.38 M-1 sec-1. Other N-substituted maleimides, such as N-methylmaleimide and N-butylmaleimide, which have ether:water partition coefficient and is essentially ineffective as an inactivator of the NaCl response. These results, together with the observation that the inactivation rate is independent of pH between 4.5 and 7.0, indicate the inactivation site is either intracellular or buried within the cell membrane at a locus inaccessible to most extracellular fluids. The rate of inactivation of the sucrose and HCl responses were measured indirectly and found to be comparable to the NaCl-stimulated inactivation rate, indicating the inhibited event is common to the transduction of the response for all of the stimuli examined. Possible sites of inactivation by N-substituted maleimides are considered in the context for and characterizing receptor-specific as well as other classes of taste cell inhibitors.
Chemotaxis toward amino acids by Bdellovibrio bacteriovorous strain UKi2 was studied by the capillary technique of Adler (J. Gen. Microbiol. 74:77-91, 1973). Chemotaxis was shown to be optimal when the capillaries were incubated at between 15 and 40 degrees C for 30 min; the optimal pH was between 7.0 and 8.2. The chemotactic response was proportional to the density of the suspension of bdellovibrios up to a density of 10(8) cells/ml. B. bacteriovorus was attracted to L-asparagine, L-cysteine, L-glutamine, glycine, L-histidine, L-lysine, and L-threonine. The possible roles of chemotaxis in the life of B. bacteriovorus are discussed.
beta-Glucosidases from Geotrichum candidum 3C cellulase preparation were separated from C1 enzymes and beta-1,4-glucanases by means of DEAE-Sephadex A-50 chromatography, gel filtration through P-150 Biogel and chromatography on CM-cellulose, and then were fractionated by isoelectric focusing using carrier ampholites with pH ranges 3-6 and 4-6. beta-Glucosidases with pI 3.8, 4.2, 4.6, 5.1, 5.6 and 6.2 were found in cellulase preparation from G. candidum 3C. Molecular weight of beta-glucosidases with pI 3.8, 4.2, 4.6 and 6.2, isolated under isoelectric focusing, were estimated by means of gel filtration through Sephadex G-200 to be 35000, 123000, 188000 and 223000 respectively. beta-Glucosidases with pI 3.8, 4.6, 5.6 and 6.2 hydrolyzed cellobiose and did not attack p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside; those with pI 4.2 and 5.6 hydrolyzed p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside and plant glucoside, protodioscin, and did not split cellobiose. All the beta-glucosidases studied did not hydrolyze laminaribose, beta-D-methylsylopyranoside, alder O-methylglucuronoxylane, o-nitrophenyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside and p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-glucopyranoside. beta-Cellobiase with pI 6.2 hydrolzed lactoses, cellobioses with pI 3.8 and pI 5.6 splited gentiobiose. beta-Glucosidase with pI 4.6 did not attack any substrate studied, except cellobiose.
The effect of some centrally active drugs on the transmission of nerve impulses through the isolated cervical sympathetic nerve and superior cervical ganglion of the rabbit has been studied by recording both preganglionic and ganglionic responses to single square wave stimuli. Chlorpromazine, trifluoperazine and haloperidol have a greater axonal depressant action than the known local anaesthetics procaine and xylocaine. Chlordiazepoxide and diazepam are similar in local anaesthetic potency to procaine while meprobamate and sodium pentobarbitone possess only slight axonal depressant properties. Meprobamate, sodium pentobarbitone and possibly diazepam have ganglion blocking properties while procaine, chlorpromazine, trifluoperazine, haloperidol and chlordiazepoxide reduce the ganglion potential by virtue of their preganglionic action.
Digitonin-solubilized Mg2+, Ca2+-ATPases of the brain microsomal fraction and synaptic plasma membranes are activated against a background of 6.0 mM Mg2+ by 0.001 and 0.03 mM of the added Ca2+ and manifest maximum activity at temperatures or 40-45 and 35-42 degrees C, respectively. The enzymes of the initial membrane preparations are activated by the same concentrations of the added Ca2+ and are characterized by the same temperature dependence. The values of pH-optima of the enzyme activity of both solubilized preparations are 7.0-7.3 and in comparison with pH-dependence of the initial membrane preparations are shifted towards acid side.
A method for the routine determination of the Tamm and Horsfall glycoprotein in human urine is presented. The method is based on quantitative electroimmunoassay. It was demonstrated that the solubility of the Tamm and Horsfall glycoprotein was dependent on urinary ionic strength and pH. To minimize these variables all urines were buffered to pH 5.5 and then preincubated at 37 degrees C in 0.3% sodium dodecyl sulphate. This procedure solubilized and maintained the Tamm and Horsfall glycoprotein in solution. Excess sodium dodecyl sulphate was removed by gel filtration before the quantities of the Tamm and Horsfall glycoprotein were determined by electroimmunoassay. The method is simple, reproducible, has high precision and compares favourably with earlier published methods for the determinations of the Tamm and Horsfall glycoprotein.
Cadaveric kidneys are sometimes unsuitable for transplantation because of possible ischaemic damage. The advent of perfusion preservation machines has enabled evaluation of perfusion characteristics and perfusate changes of organs prior to transplantation. This study has evaluated the changes in perfusate pH, lacate dehydrogenase, lactate and free fatty acid utilization in an attempt to identify those kidneys with ischaemic damage. In this investigation no single factor was discriminatory and it was not possible to predict with any degree of certainty those kidneys liable to delayed function or to non-function.
Loperamide, a new antidiarrheal agent, was tested to determine whether its biological activity involves binding to opiate receptor sites. Loperamide and morphine competitively inhibited 3H-naloxone binding to homogenates a guinea-pig brain and myenteric plexus. The Kp values obtain in the presence of Na+ were: morphine, 9.60-10(-9) M (brain), 1.66-10(-7) M (myenteric plexus); loperamide, 7.20-10(-9) M (brain), 1.33-10(-7) M (myenteric plexus); naloxone, 4.78-10(-10) M (brain), 1.27-10(-9) M (myenteric plexus. In the absence of Na+, binding a loperamide and morphine to brain homogenate was enhanced while the binding of naloxone was reduced. Morphine (IC50 = 7.5-10(-8) M) and loperamide (IC50 = 6.9-10(-9) M) inhibited the electrically induced contractions of longitudinal muscle from guinea-pig ileum, and naloxone competitively antagonized these effects. The Kd value calculated for the interaction of naloxone with binding sites associated with the contracting muscle was between 0.98-10(-9) M and 1.85-10(-9) M. In the mouse hot plate test, subcutaneous administration of morphine (minimal effective dose = 6.6 mugmol/kg) and loperamide (minimal effective dose = 78 mugmol/kg) delayed the response to heat stimuli and this effect was completely blocked by prior administration of naloxone. In the anesthetixed dog, intravenous administration of morphine (100 mug/kg) and loperamide (100 mug/kg) enhanced the contractile activity of circular muscle in proximal and distal duodenum, distal ileum and proximal colon but duodenal longitudinal muscle was relaxed; these effects were completely reversed by subsequent administration of naloxone. It is concluded that loperamide binds to opiate receptor sites and possesses opiate agonist activity both in vivo and in vitro.
In open chest dogs up to 8 side branches of the R, circumflexus and descendens were embraced and could selectively be occluded. With a new developed method local myocardial length changes in the ischemic areas, and with H+-sensitive minielectrodes the interstitial H+-activities were measured. All changes which were observed during the 3-30 min lasting coronary artery occlusions (H+-increases to about 500 neq/1, increases of diastolic length, decreases of the contraction amplitude, ST-elevations) returned to preocclusion levels during reperfusion. LVP and dp/dt remained unchanged during ischemia and reperfusion.
A study conducted on 228 diabetic patients has shown a significant positive association between serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and triglyceride levels. Both fall with treatment, the most marked reduction occurring in patients on insulin. We suggest that the association between serum GGT and triglyceride levels and also the higher incidence of raised GGT and triglyceride levels in new diabetics may reflect hepatic microsomal enzyme induction of the rate-limiting enzymes of triglyceride synthesis. Serum GGT does not seem to correlate with hepatomegaly in diabetes mellitus.
The metabolism of four benzomorphan compounds was studied in the isolated perfused rat liver, and glucuronide metabolites were identified by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Cyclazocine, ketocyclazocine, volazocine, and pantazocine were each added to the perfusate of the isolated perfused rat liver and the bile collected for 3 hours. The residue from evaporation of the bile was derivatized with the dimethylsulfoxide anion and methyl iodide, and the permethylated glucuronide metabolites were identified by GC/MS. The four compounds were hydroxylated by the liver and excreted in the bile as phenolic glucuronides. For example, permethylated hydroxycyclazocine glucuronide had a mass spectrum with a molecular ion at m/e 533 and fragment ions at m/e 301 (aglycone), m/e 260 (loss of cyclopropyl group) and prominent ions at m/e 232, 201, 169, 141, and 101 caused by fragmentation of the permethylated glucuronic acid moiety. Perdeuteriomethylation demonstrated that pentazocine, volazocine, and cyclazocine were further metabolized by methylation of one hydroxy substituent and glucuronidation on the other. Pentazocine, cyclazocine, and ketocyclazocine were also metabolized to phenolic glucuronides of the parent drugs. N-deakylated metabolites  of pentazocine, volazocine, and cyclazocine were identified both as permethylated glucuronic acid conjugates and as the trimethylsilyl derivatives of the aglycones, obtained by enzymatic hydrolysis on the conjugates in bile.
The antibacterial effects of spectinomycin and penicillin G on clinical isolates of Neisseria gonorrhoeae were studied. The concentrations of penicillin G at which the isolates showed drug sensitivity ranged widely from 0.011 to 6.25 mug/ml. Some of the isolates were resistant to penicillin G. Sensitivity to spectinomycin was observed at the drug concentrations ranging from 3.13 to 12.5 mug/ml. About 60% of the isolates were sensitive to 6.25 mug/ml of spectinomycin, and those isolates which were resistant to penicillin G showed good sensitivity to spectinomycin. No correlation in sensitivity was noted between the two drugs. Tests for their bactericidal activities on bouillon media revealed that the addition of spectinomycin at the concentration of 12.5 mug/ml or over produced a marked bactericidal effect in a short time while penicillin G exhibited a bactericidal or bacteriostatic effect depending upon the concentration used. A synergistic effect of a penicillin and an aminoglycoside antibiotic was observed in these isolates of N. gonorrhoea as was in the isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Where penicillin G and spectinomycin were used in combination, a simultaneous addition of both the drugs produced the most marked synergistic effect. Morphology of N. gonorrhoeae cells exposed to either of these drugs was examined under a scanning electron microscope. Exposure to spectinomycin at the level of 6.25 mug/ml resulted in almost no morphological change. At 6.25 mug/ml of the drug, however, a roughened cell surface, a bleb-like structure or a state suggesting the loosening of such a bleb-like structure was noted. The addition of penicillin G at 0.19 mug/ml led to an impairment of cell division at one hour of exposure and to cell swelling and lysis with further exposure. At 1.19 mug/ml of the drug, these processes of cell swelling and lysis took place early.
The haemodynamic effects of a new beta-adrenergic blocking agent KO.1366 (bunitrolol) were assessed in 10 males admitted to hospital for investigation of chest pain. Measurements were made at rest, during atrial pacing at 100 beats/min, and during hand grip exercise, before and afterintravenous administration of KO.1366 at a dosage of 0.05 mg/kg body weight. There was a 12% (p less than 0.01) slowing in resting heart rate and alpha 4% (p less than 0.05) slowing in exercise heart rate after drug administration. Resting left ventricular end diastolic pressure rose by 2.2 mm Hg (p less than 0.01) following the drug, but there was no significant change during pacing or exercise. Left ventricular systolic pressure and its first derivative did not change significantly. Cardiac output rose slightly, and stroke volume at rest and during exercise showed a considerable increase. In the dosage used, KO.1366 has an important chronotropic effect on the heart without causing significant myocardial depression.
The diverse hormonal and vascular medications are studied in the way of their mechanism of action, of their efficiency and their side effects on the mother as well as on the fetus. Neither definite argument, nor important statistical study has been made after elimination of all genetics and chromosomic anomalies. beta-mimetic, alphablocking and progesterone medications are the most efficient and certainly the less dangerous for the fetus.
Hb Gun Hill has been found in an asymptomatic black female living in Alabama; neither her parents nor her two siblings carry the variant. The deletion of five amino acid residues in the beta chain of Hb Gun Hill (alpha2beta2 91-95 deleted) causes this variant to have a high oxygen affinity, an interaction coefficient of unity and an absence of the Bohr effect. The rate of oxidation of liganded Hb Gun Hill by the ferricyanide ion follows first-order kinetics. Hb Gun Hill is to a great extent dissociated into dimers over a wide range of pH values.
Purified mung bean hypocotyl mitochondria were examined for their capacity to carry out respiration-dependent accumulation of calcium. The addition of 0.1-1.0 mM calcium to mung bean mitochondria supplemented with succinate gave no stimulation of state 4 respiration even in the presence of inorganic phosphate and the ionophoretic antibiotic A-23187. Even at high calcium concentrations, no transient changes in the respiratory activity occurred and subsequent addition of ADP initiated a further state 3 response. Although the additions of calcium resulted in a rapid H+ ejection, it was insensitive to lanthanum and uncoupling agents. Similarly, additions of calcium failed to initiate any transient changes in the oxidation-reduction states of either pyridine nucleotides or cytochrome b. Direct spectrophotometric recordings of absorbance changes of murexide revealed no respiration-linked calcium transport. It is proposed that although mung bean mitochondria possess a respiration-linked electrochemical potential gradient it would appear that this potential cannot be expressed as calcium transport even at high ion concentrations, probably due to a low calcium membrane permeability.
A controlled clinical trial was undertaken to determine potential for drug interaction of nefopam HCl, a new analgesic, with eight other widely used compounds. Nefopam HCl was administered in combination with these drugs and placebo to forty-five healthy volunteer subjects in nine groups of five subjects each. Possible drug interactions were detected by the occurrence of side-effects and interference with bioavailability of the new analgesic, also by changes in vital signs or in various laboratory tests. Results indicated no statistically significant differences in these parameters between the nefopam HCl-placebo regimen and the other eight combinations. Despite this, there were substantial clinical differences in the intensity and incidence of side-effects with combinations of codeine, pentazocine and propoxyphene. These differences warrant further study. Serum nefopam HCl levels were significantly higher on Day 3 than on Day 1, indicating no defect in bioavailability due to drug interaction. Overall, results of this study support the feasibility of concomitant use of these eight drugs with nefopam HCl for short treatment periods.
The pharmacologic disposition of 4'-(9-acridinylamino)methanesulfon-m-anisidide (AMSA; NSC-141549), a new antitumor agent presently under consideration for phase I evaluation in man, was studied in mice and rats with 14C-AMSA labeled in the 9-carbon of the acridine ring. Radioactivity was selectively localized in the liver where it was present mainly as metabolites of AMSA. After 2 hr, nearly 50% of the plasma radioactivity was bound to protein and did not dissociate upon Sephadex G-200 chromatography. Radioactivity was rapidly eliminated in the bile; greater than 50% of the administered dose was excreted by this route in 2 hr. Bile/plasma ratios of greater than 400:1 indicated an active transport mechanism. The biliary transport mechanism was saturable with therapeutic doses. AMSA was found to be especially vulnerable to nucleophilic attack by alkylthiols resulting in displacement of 4-amino-3-methoxymethanesulfonanilide and the formation of the corresponding 9-alkylthioether of acridine. The major radioactive biliary metabolite (accounting for 90-95% of the biliary radioactivity) possessed the same chromatographic properties as the thiolysis product of AMSA and glutathione (GSH). A 40% reduction in liver GSH and a 20% reduction of liver GSH-transferase activity occurred after AMSA administration to mice. The pharmacologic disposition of AMSA can best be explained by a nonenzymatic nucleophilic attack on the 9-carbon atom of AMSA by endogenous thiols, resulting in the formation of 9-thioethers of acridine. Such an attack by low molecular weight thiols results in a product that is eliminated in urine and bile, whereas interaction with protein-thiol groups results in prolonged retention of the acridine moiety.
The impact of computer-assisted instruction upon the educational process is having its effect. The computer is being used in nursing education today to manage the educational environment, to instruct, to evaluate, to identify problem areas, to gather data, to manipulate data for research purposes and for continued education. As we struggle in our efforts for quality individualized education, we are minutely scrutinizing every aspect of the teaching learning process. We are not only examining how we teach but what we teach and why we are teaching it! Our deeper understanding of the process of education has helped us to delineate nursing process as content. Higher levels of instructional goals -- cognitive, affective and conative -- are resulting in education of the whole individual. The systematization of the learning process with the greater ease of accountability is leading nursing education to blaze promising new trails into the twenty-first century.
A highly purified (237-fold) preparation of extracellular Leu-Gly-Gly aminopeptidase was isolated from the 716 strain of mould Aspergillis flavus. The enzyme was found electrophoretically and enzymatically homogeneous, using Leu-beta-naphthylimide as substrate. The pH optimum is 8.60; the temperature optimum is about 50 degrees C. The enzyme was inhibited by EDTA and completely reactivated by Co2+ ions; Ca2+ and Mn2+ ions considerably restored the enzyme activity. The enzyme showed the optimal activity during the cleavage of substrates, containing N-terminal leucine. Mild hydrolysis of leucine-free tripeptides and dipeptides with N-terminal glycine and alanine was observed. The enzyme was found to be stereospecific in some respects. Peptides with a blocked terminal NH2-group are not hydrolyzed by the enzyme.
In vitro experiments demonstrate that the polyphenol, gallic acid, can both catalyse and inhibit NDEA formation. The products of reaction depend considerably on pH conditions and relative concentrations of the reactants. Therefore, interpretation of in vitro experiments in terms of possible in vivo effects in a given population must take into consideration detailed information on eating and drinking habits which might affect pH conditions and relative concentrations of the reactants in the digestive tract. In this respect, it is interesting to note that epidemiological studies conducted by the agency (Day 1) indicate that tea, which contains gallotannins, is consumed more frequently but in a more diluted brew in the area of high oesophageal cancer incidence of the Caspian littoral than in the low incidence area. Our preliminary study on ethanol suggests that its effects will be found to lack the complications present with the tannins and would thus be more easily extrapolated to in vivo situations.
Intestinal monosaccharide transport was studied in young lambs (age: up to 1 week) and in older lambs (age: 2.5-4 months) with well developed forestomach system employing everted sacs of small intestine. Both glucose and galactose were transported against a high concentration gradient from the mucosal to the serosal side of the intestinal wall in young lambs. In the older lambs glucose was transported only against a small concentration gradient, when intestinal glucose metabolism was diminished by reducing the pH of the incubation medium from 7 to 5. Galactose and alpha-methyl-glucoside, which are not markedly metabolized by the intestine, were transported against a small but similar concentration gradient at both pH values in these animals. In young lambs, however, at pH 5 intestinal galactose transport was lower than at pH 7. These results indicate that active intestinal monosaccharide transport becomes rudimentary in the maturing sheep.
Calf brain prolidase covalently bound to CNBr-Sepharose 4B, retained about 32% of the activity of the uncoupled enzyme. The free enzyme showed slightly greater stability than the bound preparation when stored at 20 degrees C or at 0 degrees C. However, in either case the free and bound enzymes were more stable at the lower temperature. Greater thermal stability was shown by the free enzyme than by the bound preparation over a temperature range of 25 degrees C-60 degrees C. The free and bound prolidase, with and without Mn+2, had maximal activity at pH 4.0. Although the bound enzyme showed a single maximum, the free preparation exhibited three pH maxima of 4.0, 9.0, and 6.5, in decreasing order of activity. The ions Ag+, Cu+, Hg+2, and Zn+2 were strongly inhibitory on the free enzyme, whereas inhibition of the bound enzyme, with the exception of Zn+2 , was less. Unlike the coupled enzyme, a stimulatory effect was obtained on the free preparation with Co+3, Mg+2, and Mn+2. Various other compounds were studied and their effects were noted.
Thirteen 2-alkynoic acids and their methyl esters (C3--C12, C14, C16, and C18) were tested against Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma viride, and Myrothecium verrucaria in Sabouraud dextrose agar at pH 4.0 and 5.6. Toxicity to Candida albicans, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Mucro mucedo was determined in the same medium at pH 5.6 and 7.0 in the absence and presence of 10% beef serum. The fungitoxicity of the acids was influenced by chain length, pH of the medium, and absence or presence of adsorbents. The toxicity of the esters was influenced primarily by chain length and to a lesser extent by the pH of the medium and the presence of beef serum. The order of activity of the 2-alkynoic acids is C10=C11=C12 greater than C14=C16 greater than C9 greater than C8 greater than C7. When compared with other fatty acid analogs, the order of fungitoxicity on a weight basis is 2-alkynoic acids greater than 2-alkenoic acids greater than alkanoic acids greater than 2-bromoalkanoic acids greater than 2-fluoroalkanoic acids. There is an inverse relationship between chain length and pKa of the acids, suggesting that partition behavior is a fundamental determinant of fungitoxicity along with the effect of adsorbents.
For technical reasons studies of chiasma frequency and distribution, and hence of intrachromosomal recombination, have mostly been confined to male meiosis. However, there is now sufficient comparative data on male and female meiosis, in both plants and animals, to show that the extent of intra-chromosomal recombination in some organisms may be much the same on the female as on the male side, whereas other organisms show extreme sexual divergence in this regard. The evolutionary significance of such diversity remains enigmatic.
The lowest stages of polymerization of tobacco mosaic virus protein were studied by means of high-speed sedimentation equilibrium experiments. Several distinct modes of polymerization were found. At pH 7.1 the expected monomer-trimer-higher polymer equilibrium was observed--very little dimer was detected at this pH. At pH 7.5, however, a strong dimerization was observed--neither monomer nor trimer was detected at this pH. An octamer appeared to be the only species present other than the dimer. When 0.01 M beta-mercaptoethanol was added to the solvent pH 7.5, the dimer was dissociated, resulting in a monomer-trimer association. The dimerization may be the basis for the larger "doubled" polymers formed by the protein at alkaline pH, while the octamer may correspond to the 8S peak frequently observed in sedimentation velocity experiments at alkaline pH. On the other hand, the monomer-trimer-higher polymer equilibrium may correspond to the single helix formed by the protein at slightly acid pH and to the combination of 4S and 20S peaks seen in sedimentation velocity experiments at slightly acid pH.
The binding of [3H]podophyllotoxin to tubulin, measured by a DEAE-cellulose filter paper method, occurs with an affinity constant of 1.8 X 10(6) M-1 (37 degrees at pH 6.7). Like colchicine, approximately 0.8 mol of podophyllotixin are bound per mol of tubulin dimer, and the reaction is entropy-driven (43 cal deg-1 mol-1). At 37 degrees the association rate constant for podophyllotoxin binding is 3.8 X 10(6) M-1 h-1, approximtaely 10 times higher than for colchicine; this is reflected in the activation energies for binding which are 14.7 kcal/mol for podophyllotoxin and 20.3 kcal/mol for colchicine. The dissociation rate constant for the tubulin-podophyllotoxin complex is 1.9 h-1, and the affinity constant calculated from the ratio of the rates is close to that obtained by equilibrium measurements. Podophyllotxin and colchicine are mutually competitive inhibitors. This can be ascribed to the fact that both compounds have a trimethoxyphenyl ring and analogues of either compound with bulky substituents in their trimethoxyphenyl moiety are unable to inhibit the the binding of either of the two ligands. Tropolone, which inhibits colchicine binding competitively, has no effect on the podophyllotoxin/tubulin reaction. Conversely, podophyllotoxin does not influence tropolone binding. Moreover, the tropolone binding site of tubulin does not show the temperature and pH lability of the colchicine and podophyllotoxin domains, hence this lability can be ascribed to the trimethoxyphenyl binding region of tubulin. Since podophyllotoxin analogues with a modified B ring do not bind, it is concluded that both podophyllotoxin and colchicine each have at least two points of attachment to tubulin and that they share one of them, the binding region of the trimethoxyphenyl moiety.
The aerobic uptake of inorganic ions, such as 86Rb+  or 125I-, by submitochondrial particles, is about one order of magnitude lower than the uptake of organic ions, such as acridines or 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulphonate. The values of deltapH, the transmembrane pH differential, and deltapsi, the transmembrane membrane potential are between 60 and 100 mV when calculated on the inorganic ions and between 150 and 240 mV when calculated on the organic ions. The discrepancy between the deltapH and deltapsi values from organic and inorganic ions is large at high but not at low ion/protein ratios. 2. In the absence of weak bases and strong acids the values of deltamuH, the proton electrochemical potential difference, are close to 100 mV and the magnitude of deltapH and deltapsi are similar. Weak bases decrease deltapH and enhance deltapsi. Strong acids decrease deltapsi and enhance deltapH. Interchangeability of deltapH with deltapsi occurs at low concentrations of weak bases and strong acids. High concentrations of weak bases and strong acids cause depression of deltamuH. 3. Concentrations of weak bases capable of abolishing deltapH, do not affect ATP synthesis. Concentrations of strong acids capable of abolishing deltapsi affect only slightly ATP synthesis. Concentrations of weak bases and strong acids capable of causing a decline of deltapH + deltapsi inhibit ATP synthesis. 4. Depression of deltamuH is paralleled by inhibition of ATP synthesis and decline of deltaGp, the phosphate potential. Abolition of ATP synthesis occurs only when deltamuH is below 20 mV. The deltaGp/deltamuH ratio increases hyperbolically with the decrease of deltamuH.
Two patients with far advanced polyarteritis nodosa involving multiple organ systems and with aneurysm formation demonstrable by celiac axis and renal arteriograms were treated with oral cyclophosphamide, 1 to 2 mg/kg/day, and alternate day prednisone therapy. Dramatic remissions of disease activity were achieved within weeks of initiation of therapy. Repeat angiograms obtained after one year revealed complete resolution of all aneurysms. Both patients are now receiving only cyclophosphamide and are maintained in complete remission 27 and 18 months after the start of therapy. Cyclophosphamide therapy can thus be highly effective even in far advanced polyarteritis nodosa.
9,10-Dimethyl-1,2-benzanthracene is oxygenated by rat liver microsomal cytochrome P-450 oxygenase to its 9,10-epidioxide. This transannular 1,4-peroxide is converted further into the diol by the microsomal preparation and NADPH. These two products constitute the majority of the metabolites found under the conditions described.
Activities of the enzymes glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2.), glucosamine 6-phosphate acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.4.), uridine 5'-diphosphate (UDP)-N-acetylglucosamine pyrophosphorylase (EC 2.7.23.), UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 4-epimerase (EC 5.1.3.7.), fructose 1,6-diphosphate phosphatase (EC 3.13.11.), L-glutamine-fructose 6-phosphate transamidase (EC 5.3.1.19.), alkaline phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1.), and malic dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.37) were assayed in partially purified extracts prepared at different stages of myxospore formation and germination in liquid cultures of Myxococcus xanthus. The specific activities of the first six of these enzymes increased 4.5- to 7.5-fold after 2 h of induction with 0.5 M glycerol or 0.2 M dimethyl sulfoxide. The increase in specific activities of these six enzymes was not observed in a mutant unable to be induced with glycerol. During the first 2 to 4 h of induction and during the first hour of germination, the level of these enzymes decreased to the level characteristic of vegetative cells. It is suggested that the six enzymes are responsible for the increased conversion of fructose 1,6-diphosphate to UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine, the major precursor of the myxospore coat.
The discovery of interferon in 1957 by Drs. Isaacs and Lindenmann led to major revisions in the concepts of man's defenses against viral infections. There are at least two types of interferon. Along with their antiviral properties, they have recently been shown to exert a suppressive effect on the humoral and cellular immune response; they affect both B and T lymphocytes. A variety of substances, including virus, polyribonucleotides, and mitogens for T lymphocytes, are good interferon inducers. T lymphocytes seem to be necessary for these inducers to exert their immunosuppressive effects. The immunosuppressive effects of interferon inducers suggests that interferons may be mediators of suppressor T lymphocyte effects. In the virus system, interferon does not exert its antiviral effects by direct action on the virus, but rather derepresses a cell gene that results in the production of an antiviral protein. This antiviral protein is probably the mediator of inhibition of virus replication. This is a complex sequence of events that results in the interaction of interferon with the cell membrane and the resulting production of the antiviral state in the cell. This review will examine the various steps of this involved process.
The synthesis and purification of the 8-azidoadenine analogs of NAD+ (azido-NAD+) and FAD (AZIDO-FAD) from 8-azidoadenosine 5'-phosphate and NMN+ or FMN, respectively, is described. The coenzyme analogs are characterized by absorption, nuclear magnetic resonance and circular dichroism spectra. The two latter methods indicate a folded structure of azido-NAD+ and azido-FAD. Upon irradiation at 300 mn in aqueous solution, a change of the ultraviolet absorption spectra of the coenzyme analogs indicates photolysis of the azido group. The coenzyme properties of azido-NAD+ are demonstrated with lactate, glutamate and alcohol dehydrogenase yielding 14, 154 and 60%, respectively, of the V observed with NAD+. Concomitantly, the Km values of the coenzyme analogs are 1.7, 3.5 and 3-fold higher than those of NAD+. Azido-FAD is shown to be coenzyme of apo-glucose oxidase. The recovery of activity, however, is much slower in the presence of azido-FAD than with FAD. A final value of 66% of the activity with FAD is obtained. With apo-D-amino acid oxidase, azido-FAD is completely inactive, although it is specifically bound to the enzyme.
Ammonia absorption was studied from Thirty-Vella colon loops in 6 dogs. Four underwent an end-to-side portacaval shunt and it was shown that absorption of ammonia from the colon significantly increased postoperatively. Absorption of ammonia from various solutions was also measured before and after portacaval shunt and it was shown taht absorption was increased from a high pH solution and from a solution with a high bicarbonate content and reduced from a low pH, low osmolality and high osmolality solution. Increased deposits of stainable iron were demonstrated in the livers of dogs following portacaval shunt.
Rat intestinal microvillus membranes and lipid extracts prepared from them have been studied by fluorescence polarization with three lipid-soluble fluorophores: diphenylhexatriene, retinol, and anthroyl-stearate. The degree of fluorescence polarization of diphenylhexatriene, which provides an index of the "microviscosity" of the lipid regions of the membrane, is exceptionally high in microvillus membranes, the highest yet reported in normal biological membranes. Both the membrane proteins and lipids were found to contribute to the high values. With each of the three probes the polarization values are higher in ileal microvillus membranes as compared to membranes from proximal intestinal segments. Temperature-dependence studies of the fluorescence polarization of diphenylhexatriene and anthroylstearate demonstrate a phase transition in microvillus membranes and in liposomes prepared from their lipid extracts at approximately 26+/-2 degrees C. Ambient pH influences markedly the diphenylhexatriene fluorescence polarization in microvillus membranes but has little effect on that of human erythrocyte ghost membranes. The "microviscosity" of jejunal microvillus membranes is maximal at pH 6.5-7.0 and decreases as much as 50% at pH 3.0, an effect which depends largely upon the membrane proteins. Addition of calcium ions to suspensions of microvillus membranes increases the fluorescence polarization of retinol and anthroyl-stearate, but not that of diphenyl-hexatriene. This confirms the localization of the last compound to the hydrophobic interior of the membrane, relatively distant from the hydrophilic head groups of the polar lipids. Microvillus membrane proteins solubilized with Triton X-100 give relatively high fluorescence polarization and intensity values with retinol, suggesting the presence of binding proteins which could play a role in the normal absorptive mechanism for the vitamin.
Lipopolysaccharide from Escherichia coli (LPS) administered to mice during the graft-versus-host (GvH) reaction in a single dose of 100 mug stimulated the reaction if it was given on the same day as the parental spleen cells, or inhibited it if given four days before injection of the cells. The GvH reaction was intensified when LPS was injected in the dose of 20 mug on the fourth day after injection of the cells. The parental spleen cells responsible for the intestifying effect on GvH were sensitive to hydrocortisone, nonadherent, and probably develop in the course of the first week outside the donor spleen and settle in the spleen in a later stage of the GvH reaction.
The purpose of this study was to investigate distal nephron hydrogen ion secretion in the intact animal. The rabbit was chosen as the experimental model because it produces acid urine containing little ammonium. Upon replacement of the usual rabbit diet with milk, plus administration of an acid load (10 mEq/kg), the urine pH fell consistently from very alkaline values (PH greater than 7.4) to 4.8 +/- 0.2. Despite the ability to achieve high urine-to-blood hydrogen ion concentration gradients, the U-B PCO2, an index of collecting duct hydrogen ion secretion, was virtually zero. In these studies, the urine bicarbonate and buffer concentration were comparable to those observed in dog, rat, and man in which a high U-B PCO2 gradient was achieved. The rabbits studied had low plasma potassium concentrations (less than 3 mEq/L). Since potassium deficiency has been implicated in impaired urine acidification, potassium was administered, and it resulted in an increase in collecting duct hydrogen ion secretion as evidenced by a further fall in minimum urine pH during acidemia and a prompt rise in the U-B PCO2 during alkali administration. In summary, rabbits had a very low but not absent rate of collecting duct hydrogen ion secretion. Potassium administration increased the rate of hydrogen ion secretion in a segment of the collecting duct in which hydrogen ion secretion is reflected by an increase U-B PCO2.
A late-log-phase culture of an Escherichia coli nadB pncA double mutant took up 6-[7-14C]aminonicotinic acid and excreted 6-[14C]aminonicotinamide. This mutant also accumulated intracellularly several radioactive compounds which have been tentatively identified as 6-amino analogs of compounds in the pyridine nucleotide cycle. It is concluded that 6-aminonicotinamide and 6-aminonicotinic acid probably exert at least a portion of their bacteriostatic effects by being metabolized, by the enzymes of the pyridine nucleotide cycle, to 6-aminonicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and 6-aminonicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate. These compounds are not electron acceptors and are known inhibitors of some pyridine nucleotide-linked dehydrogenases.
The effect of administration of lidocaine on left ventricular performance was studied using systolic time intervals in nine normal subjects, eight patients with stable angina, and 15 patients with acute myocardial infarction. The greatest response in systolic time intervals occurred at three minutes after intravenous injection of lidocaine (100 mg), with values returning to baseline at 10 to 15 minutes. Administration of lidocaine produced a significant prolongation of the preejection period (PEP) corrected for heart rate in all groups and a prolongation of the ratio of PEP to left ventricular ejection time (PEP/LVET) in patients with angina. The group with acute myocardial infarction exhibited a hyperadrenergic state, as shown by a short baseline QS2I. The QS I was lengthened by administration of lidocaine in all groups, but this was more profound in those with acute myocardial infarction. These changes in systolic time intervals were still present at two hours after injection in six patients with acute myocardial infarction in whom an infusion of lidocaine followed the initial bolus. The effect of administering lidocaine after intravenous injection of propranolol (5 mg) was also studied in six normal subjects. Although propranolol therapy along prolonged the PEP/LVET, a further significant prolongation followed subsequent injection of lidocaine.
Titrations employing electron spin resonance spectroscopy and equilibrium dialysis studies have revealed that Mn2+ binding to concanavalin A is cooperative in the presence and noncooperative in the absence of Ca2+. The degree of cooperativity increases with increasing pH. Hill coefficients range from 1.4 at pH 5.0 to 1.8 at pH 6.85. In addition to inducing cooperativity in Mn2+ binding, Ca2+ influences the pH dependence and increases the affinity of Mn2+ binding. In contrast to previous suggestions based mostly on work conducted near pH 5, demetallized concanavalin A does bind Ca2+ with an appreciable binding constant. These observations indicate that at physiological pH the role of metal ions in determining functional properties of concanavalin A is different from that suggested by metal binding studies conducted at lower pH values.
The anticonvulsive effect of Lorazepam -- one of the newer diazepines -- has been tested in 10 patients with induced epileptic conditions under continuous polygraphic control. The quantitative analysis of the paroxysmal discharges -- i.e. the evolution of the "paroxysmal index" -- shows that 5 mg IV Lorazepam normalize the tracings in 2.3 minutes. Parenteral Lorazepam inhibits pharmacologically-induced electroencephalographic abnormalities in man. Its action is slightly delayed. No effect on cardiac or respiratory function, or muscle tone was noted.
Sixty-four cases of rupture of the uterus were managed from March 1967 to March 1977. The maternal morbidity was 81.0%, and there were six maternal deaths (9.4%). Fifty-two patients (85.5%) had hysterectomies. The average hospital stay for patients who survived was 15.5 days. The fetal mortality rate was 89%. The etiology, diagnostic evaluation and the mode of prevention are discussed.
Whole cells of Micrococcus luteus (formerly Sarcina lutea ATCC 9341) have been covalently linked to a carboxymethylcellulose support system, with the retention of histidine ammonia-lyase activity. The dependence of the rate of urocanic acid formation on pH, temperature, and added surfactant concentration was similar for the free and the immobilized cells. The immobilization procedure used is based on the carbodiimide activation of carboxymethylcellulose and has been optimized for the histidine ammonia-lyase activity of the immobilized cells on a given weight of cellulose. In a column reactor at 23 degrees C and superficial velocity of 0.044 cm/min, 5 g of cellulose with bound cells gave a 35% conversion of an L-histidine solution (0.25M, pH 9.0) to urocanic acid for 16 days of continuous operation. The scope of this carbodiimide assisted immobilization procedure has been investigated for a series of microorganisms and a variety of carboxylate functionalized supports.
A prospective study was designed to obtain data on all meningitis patients admitted to a large county Communicable Disease Unit. The epidemiologic and clinical features of 290 cases were analyzed to ascertain the effect of routine O.R.L. consultation on the morbidity and mortality of this disease. The results of physical examination provided current statistics as to the existence of ear, nose, and throat diseases associated with meningitis.
In cystic fibrosis there is chronic infection and inflammatory reaction in the airways, accompanied by destruction and shedding of airway epithelium. Leukocytes migrate into the airways and some disintegrate, liberating deoxyribonucleoprotein that is incorporated into the gel structure of the bronchial mucus. We compared the status of these processes in cystic fibrosis with that in chronic bronchitis and bronchiectasis, by examining the sputum raised from the lower airways. Measurements also were made on sputum induced in normal subjects. The results indicate that migration of leukocytes into the airways and shedding of damaged airway epithelium were minimal in the normal subjects; they were significant in the patients with chronic bronchitis, higher in those with bronchiectasis, and still higher in those with cystic fibrosis. The large increases found in the total content of DNA and solids in the cystic fibrosis sputum were due to increases in the insoluble fraction containing the whole leukocytes and particulate debris that remained when the sputum mucus gel was solubilized with mercaptoethanol. Despite the large increases in the total content of DNA and solids, the contents of mucus gel components and of deoxyribonucleoprotein from disintegrated leukocytes actually present in the mucus gel structure of the cystic fibrosis sputum were not significantly higher than in the sputum from the patients with chronic bronchitis or brochiectasis.
By explaining the social situation of the patients in a Berlin hospital for chronic and geriatric diseases, it is demonstrated that financial security and social status of old woman patients are much worse than those of old men. Examples are mentioned to demonstrate which were--and still are--the main causes--that in their earlier years women were paid less for their work and were discriminated because of their sex. If for the future the situation of old women is to be improved, the emancipation of women must advance today.
Transient extracellular pH changes accompany the exchange of chloride for sulfate across the erythrocyte membrane. The direction of the extracellular pH change during chloride efflux and sulfate influx depends on experimental conditions. When bicarbonate is present, the extracellular pH drops sharply at the outset of the anion exchange and tends to follow the partial ionic equilibrium described by Wilbrandt (W. Wilbrandt, 1942. Pfluegers Arch. 246:291). When bicarbonate is absent, however, the anion exchange causes the pH to rise, indicating that protons are cotransported with sulfate during chloride-sulfate exchange. The pH rise can be reversed by the addition of HCO(-3) (4 muM) or 2,4-dinitrophenol (90 muM). This demonstrates that the proton-sulfate cotransport can drive proton transport uphill. The stoichiometry of the transport is that one chloride exchanges for one sulfate plus one proton. These results support the titratable carrier model proposed by Gunn (Gunn, R.B. 1972, In: Oxygen Affinity of Hemoglobin and Red Cell Acid-Base Status. M. Rorth and P. Astrup, editors. p. 823. Munksgaard, Copenhagen) for erythrocyte membrane anion exchange.
A soluble form of NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase (NADH: ferricytochrome b5 oxidoreductase, EC 1.6.2.2) was found in the cytosolic fraction of rabbit liver. The partially purified enzyme was strictly specific for NADH. It catalyzed the reduction of several substrates such as the methemoglobin-ferrocyanide complex (Hegesh, E. and Avron, M. (1967) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 146, 91-101) (apparent Km: 8 micrometer), potassium ferricyanide (apparent Km: 10 micrometer) and ferricytochrome b5 (apparent Km: 15 micrometer). Upon acrylamide gel isoelectro-focusing followed by specific staining, the enzyme was resolved into four bands (isoelectric pH: 7.05, 6.70, 6.50 and 6.30). The optimum pH of activity with ferricytochrome b5 as a substrate was 6.5. The estimated molecular weight was 25 000--30 000. The enzyme was unsensitive to cyanide. It was strongly inhibited by p-hydroxymercuribenzoate. The cytosolic liver cytochrome b5 reductase was immunologically related to the soluble cytochrome b5 reductase from human and rabbit red-cells, and to the microsomal cytochrome b5 reductase from rabbit liver.
A differential assay based on their difference in thermal stability has been used to measure the acidic and true intermediate alpha-mannosidases in the plasma of cntrols and individuals homozygous or heterozygous for mannosidosis. The intermediate activity was found to be independent of age, sex or mannosidosis genotype. The acidic alpha-mannosidase did not vary significantly with age or between sexes for groups of the same age. The concentrations of acidic and intermediate alpha-mannosidase showed a positive correlation for adults but not for children. The ratio of acidic to true intermediate alpha-mannosidase might therefore be a useful secondary test for the detection of adult heterozygotes for mannosidosis.
Beta-adrenoceptor antagonists are effective antihypertensive agents in the majority of patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension. Their antipressor activity is greater on systolic than diastolic pressure and greatest during dynamic exertion. Their circulatory effects are maximum within 1-2 hours of ingestion and the antipressor effects of a single dose are detectable for over eight hours. Both the immediate and long-term blood pressure lowering effects of these drugs are dose-related. The reduction in exercise systolic pressure is related to the logarithm of the dose of each drug; the reductions in pressure at rest follow no simple mathematical function. There is wide individual variation in the plasma concentrations achieved after a given oral dose, although the averaged values follow a linear regression. There are wide discrepancies between plasma-concentration profile and magnitude and duration of antihypertensive activity; blood pressure lowering activity persists for significantly longer than the drug is detectable in plasma. The antihypertensive effects of the beta-blocking drugs are enhanced during chronic administration without habituation. Their effects are specific but independent of the immediate presence of the drug, i.e. blood pressure lowering activity persists after clearance of the drug from the body. The ancillary pharmacological properties of these drugs neither augment nor detract from their antihypertensive potency, although the possession of intrinsic vasodilator activity enhances reduction in the blood pressure standing at rest. Beta-blocking drugs add a new dimension to antihypertensive treatment in their specific potential to reduce the coronary consequences of the disease.
NH4+ caused a dose-related, rapid, and reversible inhibition of glucose-stimulated insulin release by isolated rat islets. It also inhibited glyceraldehyde-, Ba2+-, and sulfonylurea-stimulated insulun secretion. NH4+ failed to affect glucose utilization and oxidation, glucose-stimulated proinsulin biosynthesis, the concentration of ATP, AD, and AMP, and the intracellular pH. NH4+ also failed to affect the ability of theophylline and cytochalasin B to augment glucose-induced insulin release. However, in the presence and absence of glucose, accumulation of NH4+ in islet cells was associated with a fall in the concentration of NADH and HADPH and a concomitant alteration of 86Rb+ and 45Ca2+ (or 133Ba2+) handling. These findings suggest that reduced pyridine nucleotides, generated by the metabolism of endogenous of exogenous nutrients, may modulate ionophoretic processes in the islet cells and by doing so, affect the net uptake of Ca2+ and subsequent release of insulin.
Genetic counselling for chromosome abnormalities must take into account the fact that such anomalies may develop as an error in oogenesis or spermatogenesis or may be transmitted from parents. Since many chromosomally abnormal embryos are spontaneously aborted, parents with repeated unfavorable outcomes of pregnancy or difficulty in conceiving should be studied by karyotype. The relationship between chromosomal abnormalities and various environmental or biologic factors are discussed. The outcome of a previous pregnancy may indicate the necessity of subsequent fetal evaluation even with chromosomally normal parents.
The competence of murine Peyer's patch cells to evoke a local GVH reaction was compared with that displayed by lymphoid cells of spleen, lymph nodes, thymus, bone marrow, peritoneal cavity and peripheral blood. The local GVH reaction was assessed in a lymphocyte-induced angiogenesis assay in which an intradermal injection of lymphoid cells results in a new blood vessel formation at the injection site, and the number of vessels corresponds to the number of the immunocompetent cells injected. Peyer's patch cells were capable of mounting a local GVH reaction of intensity comparable to that evoked by the corresponding number of thymus cells or a four times lower number of spleen cells. The highest activity was exhibited by lymph node and peripheral blood cells while bone marrow cells were the least active. A striking increase in angiogenic response was observed after X-irradiation of the recipients with 700R.
The effect of sorbitol on the aging of aluminum hydroxide gel, prepared by the reaction of aluminum chloride solution with strong ammonia solution to a final pH of 7.0, was studied by potentiometric titration, acid-consuming capacity, pH, hydroxide to aluminum ratio, chloride activity, X-ray diffraction, and IR spectroscopy. Gels containing sorbitol lost less than 10% of their acid-consuming capacity during a 6-month aging period compared with a loss of more than 60% for an identical gel without sorbitol. The mechanism by which sorbitol stabilizes the gel appears to be inhibition of the secondary polymerization reaction which takes place upon aging. Another polyhydroxy compound, quercetin, also stabilizes aluminum hydroxide gel.
Obesity results when the ingestion of energy exceeds its utilization, leading to an excessive expansion of the adipose tissue mass. Current pharmacological therapy for the obese patient focuses primarily on reducing energy intake. Anorectic agents reduce food consumption by modifying central systems in the brain which are involved in appetite regulation. These agents are reviewed in terms of mechanism of action, and clinical safety and efficacy in suppressing appetite and promoting weight loss. Newer anorectic agents which are being evaluated currently in clinical and animal studies are described. Clinical assessments of therapeutic regimens utilizing the thyroid hormones and human chorionic gonadotropin are evaluated. Finally, an overview of novel pharmacological approaches to the treatment of obesity is presented.
The Morris hepatoma 5123D after at least two passages in F1 (Buffalo X Wistar) rats shows quicker growth than the original tumor and bearers of it have much lower gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity in serum, urine, tumor and in some other organs. This new variant of the hepatoma was labeled as hepatoma 5123D/AS. Simultaneous implantation of hepatomas 5123D/AS and 5123D in the same rats prevents the increase of serum gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity. After surgical removal of the former tumor, the enzyme activity in serum quickly increases. No significant differences in some other peptidase activities were observed between the variant and hepatoma 5123D.
The President of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons reviews the organization of the Association designed to represent neurosurgery and neurosurgeons. He summarizes the pertinent problems that the specialty has faced and with which it continues to deal, in persistent pursuit of its objective: to assure the highest quality of neurosurgical care for all.
The relative concentrations of zwitterionic and uncharged species for the series of N-substituted catecholamines (I, R1 = R2 = OH; R = H, Me, Et, i-Pr, t-Bu) are derived from the pKa data published in 1962 by Sinistri and Villa. The concentration ratios, represented by the tautomeric equilibrium constant Kt, show a definite trend and are respectively 1.8, 4.3, 4.7, 4.7, and 7.1. These values suggest that any mechanism of action involving proton transfer, which might transform the zwitterion into the uncharged form, would be most favorable for norepinephrine and least favorable fo the t-Bu derivative.
The disruption of a kidney cortex microsomal membrane preparation by a binary, nonionic detergent, was followed by using as markers, the changes in total protein content, and (Na+, K+)-ATPase in a supernatant fraction. Both markers responded similarly to changes in pH, microsome concentration and detergent concentration, but responded differently for time-dependent studies. The (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity was increased 2.2-fold (76.1 mumoles Pi/mg protein/h, 95% ouabain-sensitive) by a single detergent treatment and 3.5-fold (92% ouabain-sensitive) by a sequential detergent treatment. Changes in the critical micelle concentration (cmc) were observed for varying detergent and protein concentrations, which suggest interactions of monomeric detergent with the membrane. The peak of (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity occurred above the cmc which suggests the participation of micelles in releasing the enzyme from the membranes. Hill plots of the protein released as the detergent concentration was varied showed a change in the slope near the cmc indicating a four-fold increase in the binding of detergent to membranes as the detergent concentration is increased above the cmc. These results suggest that the disruption of membranes by detergent involves the binding of detergent monomers to the membrane followed by the formation of co-micelles of the detergent with segments of the membrane to complete the separation process.
To determine whether hypoxia directly affects pulmonary microvascular filtration of fluid or permeability to plasma proteins, we measured steady state lung lymph flow and protein transport in eight unanesthetized sheep breathing 10% O2 in N2 for 4 hours. We also studied three sheep breathing the same gas mixture for 48 hours. We surgically prepared the sheep to isolate and collect lung lymph and to measure average pulmonary arterial (Ppa) and left atrial (Pla) pressures. We placed a balloon catheter in the left atrium to elevate Pla. After recovery, the sheep breathed air through a tracheostomy for 2-4 hours, followed by 4 or 48 hours of hypoxia. In 13 4-hour studies, the average arterial PO2 fell from 97 to 38 torr; Ppa rose from 20 to 33 cm H2O; and lung lymph flow and lymph protein flow were unchanged. We also found that during 48-hour hypoxia, with a sustained elevation in Ppa and a decline in Pla, lymph flow and protein flow did not increase. In four sheep, we also raised Pla for 4 hours, followed by 4 hours of hypoxia with elevated Pla. Again, despite the added stress of elevated Pla, we found that lymph flow and lymph protein flow remained constant during hypoxia. We conclude that severe alveolar hypoxia, for 4 or 48 hours, alone or with increased pulmonary microvascular pressure, produced no change in lung fluid filtration or protein permeability, a finding supported by normal postmortem histology and extravascular lung water content.
Mercurous ion (Hg(+))-dependent reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidation was demonstrated in an extract from cells of Escherichia coli W2252 that bear R factor.
1. Preparations of purified pig kidney aminoacylase (N-Acylamino-acid amidohydrolase, EC 3.5.1.14) were obtained by Sephadex and DEAE-cellulose chromatography in homogeneous form as judged by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoelectrophoresis. 2. The apparent molecular weight of the enzyme, determined by gel filtration, was about 86 000. After treatment with mercaptoethanol, performic acid or sodium dodecyl sulphate a band with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 43 000 was observed in polyacrylamide gels containing sodium dodecyl sulphate. Thus pig kidney aminoacylase seems to be composed of two subunits. 3. The amino acid composition of the enzyme was determined. Aminoacylase contains 772 amino acids, which corresponds to a molecular weight of 85 500. 12 tryptophan and 12 half-cystine residues were found. 4. Each subunit of the enzyme contains two -SH groups of different reactivity and two disulfide bonds one of which is easily cleaved by -SH compounds, the second only by performic acid oxidation. 5. Chemical modification of two -SH groups abolishes the catalytic activity of aminoacylase. Cleavage of two disulfide bonds also inactivates the enzyme. It is suggested that the enzyme has two active sites each containing an essential -SH group and disulfide bond. One active site is assumed to be part of each subunit.
During a six year period 43 patients with Crohns disease were included in a double-blind controlled trial of sulphasalazine given for one year as a possible treatment for reducing the relapse rate after resection or in asymptomatic patients with established disease. No trend in favour of sulphasalazine over the control group was observed. The difficulties of such a trial due to the small number of patients entered from nine hospitals, the varied nature of the disease, and the high incidence of complications, such as intraperitoneal abscess formation, are discussed.
In increase in the concentration of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) in the blood perfusates of the heart, spleen and mesentery of pithed rats was detected following selective sympathetic nerve stimulation. Furthermore, the concentration of enzyme released by each organ correlated with the stimulation frequency. The results provide further corroborative evidence that the concentration of DBH in the plasma is related to the degree of sympathetic tone. If the sampling methods described were applied to non-spinalized animals, the concentrations of DBH in organ perfusates could be used as an index of sympathetic nervous tone and thus provide a useful preparation for the study of drugs on the sympathetic nervous system.
The acetate activating system of Acetobacter aceti has been studied. The enzyme responsible, acetyl-CoA synthetase, has been purified about 500-fold from crude cell extracts and was approximately 85% pure as judged by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulphate. The purified enzyme showed optimal activity at pH 7.6 in both Tris-HCL and potassium phosphate buffers. In its purest form, the enzyme was stable at 4 degrees-C but denatured upon freezing. The Km values for CoA, ATP and acetate were found to be 0.104 mM, 0.36 mM and 0.25 mM respectively; propionate and acrylate were also activated by the enzyme but not butyrate, isobutyrate or valerate. GTP, UTP, CTP and ADP could not replace ATP in the reaction, and cysteine or pantetheine failed to replace CoA. The cationic requirements were studied and of the divalent cations tested, only Mn2+ could significantly replace Mg2+ in the reaction; K+ and NH4+ stimulated enzyme activity but inhibited at high concentrations; Na+ was a poor activator, but did not inhibit at higher concentrations. The effect of a number of glucose and other metabolites on enzyme activity has been tested.
The pertinence of a rating scale capable of characterizing presenting psychopathology and measuring degrees of change for psychoneurotic patients treated in an outpatient setting is described. Data for 328 patients who represent 1191 rating profiles were used to develop the factor structure for the New Physician's Rating List, a rating scale completed by health professionals after Patient interviews. Findings were used to develop the new Brief Outpatient Psychopathology Scale. A proposed factor structure is discussed. The structures of both scales include an Anxiety Syndrome composed of Anxiety and Psychomotor Activation Factors. The scales also include Depression and Somatization factors.
An ultrastructural study of Kulschitsky cells was made on lung tissue from five human fetuses of gestational ages between 18 and 25 weeks. The cells were found to occur with relative frequency throughout the bronchi and bronchioles, as well as in the developing saccules. This report describes in detail the cells of the terminal bronchioles and saccules, where their long cytoplasmic processes weave through the epithelium and come into contact with intercellular spaces and the lumen. The cytoplasmic organelles have an orderly arrangement comparable to secreting cells. Dense core vesicles characterise the cytoplasm but clear vesicles and some with less dense, diffuse cores are also present, and may be seen outside the plasma membrane and in the interstitial spaces. The K-cells are usually colsely associated with capillaries or smooth muscle cells across the basement membrane. In addition, the rare occurrence of a small unmyelinated nerve fibre in the vicinity of a K-cell in a terminal bronchiole raises the possibility that the cells fulfill a type of 'mini receptor' role in addition to their probable vasoactive one. Evidence is given that K-cells divide in human fetal lung.
The authors used techniques of pure anesthesia analgesia with Fentathienyl-Pavulon, or anesthesia and analgesia potentialised with Fentathienyl-Flunitrazepam, or Pentothal-Fentathienyl-Pavulon on various series of patients. The study was oriented on changes in the sympathetico-adrenalin pituitary response, and the use of glucose under the effect of these techniques. There was noted a fall in plasma cortisol levels, a fall in urinary excretion of catecholamines, an increase in growth hormone and better peripheral use of glucose. A comparative study was carried out with similar techniques using morphine, pentazocine or fentanyl.
The causes of sexual impotence, including disturbances of ejaculation, and the methods of treatment are described. In the vast majority of cases male sterility results from a disorder of spermatogenesis. The main factors responsible for infertile semen are discussed: in most cases the causes are unknown. It is to be hoped that progress in research into human reproduction and recent diagnostic advances will provide the groundwork for more successful therapy of male sterility.
On incubation of diluted blood serum with ferrous ions kinetics of chemiluminescence, typical for lipid containing systems, was observed. It comprised several sequental steps: quick flash, inhibition of the chemiluminescence, slow flash with subsequent steady-state luminescence. At each step of the phenomenon a correlation was found between the intensity of chemiluminescence, the rate of accumulation of products of lipid peroxidation (malone dialdehyde) and concentration of Fe2+ in the mixture. The data obtained suggest that chemiluminescence of blood serum in presence of Fe2+ is due to lipid peroxidation in the serum. Kinetics of the reaction and shape of the chemiluminiscence curve depended upon a number of factors: dilution of blood serum, concentration of Fe2+ added, temperature, pH and (if blood plasma was used) type of an anticoagulant use. Only in blood lipoproteins, mainly in beta-lipoproteins, the distinctive pattern of peroxidation was developed with simultaneous accumulation of malone dialdehyde, oxidation of ferrous ions and ultralow chemiluminescence. In protein fraction of blood serum addition of Fe2+ caused only the quick splash of chemiluminescence without the malone dialdehyde production.
Rotation-mediated aggregating cell cultures of mechanically dissociated fetal rat brains divided into three (telencephalon, mesencephalon-diencephalon and rhombencephalon), or two (telencephalon and mesencephalon-diencephalon plus rhombencephalon) parts were examined for their biochemical differentiation by measuring the specific activities of choline acetyltransferase, acetylcholinesterase, glutamic acid decarboxylase, tyrosine 3-monooxygenase, aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, catechol methyltransferase and monoamine oxidase. The results showed that such parts yielded cultures that were relatively enriched for acetylcholine-synthesizing (telencephalon) or catecholamine-synthesizing (mesencephalon-diencephalon and mesencephalon-diencephalon plus rhombencephalon) enzymes. For cultures which were derived from two brain divisions, the sum of the total activity for each enzyme in the parts after 30 days equalled that in whole brain cultures derived from the same group of embryos, suggesting that development of these enzymes was unaffected by division of the brain in two. In experiments to determine the effects of culture conditions on this development, chronic administration of certain drugs was found to selectively influence the specific activity of certain neurotransmitter metabolizing enzymes. Thus, in cultures of whole brain, ascorbic acid (0.2 mM) decreased tyrosine 3-monooxygenase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase while other enzymes were slightly increased; and in cultures of telencephalon and mesencephalon-diencephalon plus rhombencephalon, N6, O2'-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic phosphate (0.2 mM) decreased the specific activities of choline acetyltransferase acetylcholinesterase, glutamic acid decarboxylase and monoamine oxidase. These results demonstrate the feasibility of growing these cultures for pharmacological studies in developmental neurobiology.
Although criticisms of the submucous resection of the nasal septum and turbinectomy have been given, this is not to discredit these procedures when they are truly indicated. Certainly there are anatomic deformities causing nasal obstruction wherein a submucous resection of the septum or a submucous resection of the anterior portion of the inferior turbinate would be of benefit. The surgeon performing rhinoplastic surgery must be aware of the physiologic causes of nasal obstruction. Often a combination of structural deformity and rhinitis is blocking the airway. Intranasal, intramucosal injections of long acting corticosteroids have proven to be of great benefit in the treatment of chronic allergic, vasomotor, and hypertrophic rhinitis, and they are a useful adjunct to rhinoplastic surgery.
Epinephrine and the alpha-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine activated phosphorylase, glycogenolysis, and gluconeogenesis from lactate in a dose-dependent manner in isolated rat liver parenchymal cells. The half-maximally active dose of epinephrine was 10-7 M and of phenylephrine was 10(-6) M. These effects were blocked by alpha-adrenergic antagonists including phenoxybenzamine, but were largely unaffected by beta-adrenergic antagonists including propranolol. Epinephrine caused a transient 2-fold elevation of adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate (cAMP) which was abolished by propranolol and other beta blockers, but was unaffected by phenoxybenzamine and other alpha blockers. Phenoxybenzamine and propranolol were shown to be specific for their respective adrenergic receptors and to not affect the actions of glucagon or exogenous cAMP. Neither epinephrine (10-7 M), phenylephrine (10-5 M), nor glucagon (10-7 M) inactivated glycogen synthase in liver cells from fed rats. When the glycogen synthase activity ratio (-glucose 6-phosphate/+ glucose 6-phosphate) was increased from 0.09 to 0.66 by preincubation of such cells with 40 mM glucose, these agents substantially inactivated the enzyme. Incubation of hepatocytes from fed rats resulted in glycogen depletion which was correlated with an increase in the glycogen synthase activity ratio and a decrease in phosphorylase alpha activity. In hepatocytes from fasted animals, the glycogen synthase activity ratio was 0.32 +/- 0.03, and epinephrine, glucagon, and phenylephrine were able to lower this significantly. The effects of epinephrine and phenylephrine on the enzyme were blocked by phenoxybenzamine, but were largely unaffected by propranolol. Maximal phosphorylase activation in hepatocytes from fasted rats incubated with 10(-5) M phenylephrine preceded the maximal inactivation of glycogen synthase. Addition of glucose rapidly reduced, in a dose-dependent manner, both basal and phenylephrine-elevated phosphorylase alpha activity in hepatocytes prepared from fasted rats. Glucose also increased the glycogen synthase activity ratio, but this effect lagged behind the change in phosphorylase. Phenylephrine (10-5 M) and glucagon (5 x 10(-10) M) decreased by one-half the fall in phosphoryalse alpha activity seen with 10 mM glucose and markedly suppressed the elevation of glycogen synthase activity. The following conclusions are drawn from these findings. (a) The effects of epinephrine and phenylephrine on carbohydrate metabolism in rat liver parenchymal cells are mediated predominantly by alpha-adrenergic receptors. (b) Stimulation of these receptors by epinephrine or phenylephrine results in activation of phosphorylase and gluconeogenesis and inactivation of glycogen synthase by mechanisms not involving an increase in cellular cAMP. (c) Activation of beta-adrenergic receptors by epinephrine leads to the accumulation of cAMP, but this is associated with minimal activation of phosphorylase or inactivation of glycogen synthase...
It has been shown that the thermal stability of DNA in the brain cortical cells increases with the age. At the same time, the number of perichromatin granules being connected in some way to the messenger RNA synthesis and transport of the interphase nuclei, decreases in the same cells. In vivo treatment of the old animals by mitogens like phytohemagglutinin induced a reversal of both ageing phenomena: the thermal stability of DNA returned almost completely to that of the young animals, whereas the number of perichromatin granules rised again to the young level.
In order to study the metabolism of triacylglycerol in mycobacteria, an intracellular particulate triacylglycerol lipase (EC 3.1.1.3) was purified 800-fold from stationary phase cells of Mycobacterium phlei. Extraction of whole cell suspensions with 5% Triton X-100, followed by ion-exchange chromatography of the extract on two successive DEAE-cellulose columns produced a preparation which was nearly homogeneous by the criterion of analytical isoelectric focusing in acrylamide gels (one band, pI. 3.8) and by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis resolved the preparation into six protein bands. Lipase activity stable to electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate was extracted from the 40 000 molecular weight region of the gels. ith phosphate or maleate buffer the enzyme exhibits a broad pH optimum around 6.0 with sigmoid saturation kinetics (Hill number 2), and an apparent Km of 8.8 mM  for tripalmitoylglycerol. Citrate and other carboxylic acids increase the apparent V up to 3-fold with the Hill number approaching 1.0. In a series of p-nitrophenyl esters tested (C2-C18), p-nitrophenylmyristate was hydrolyzed most rapidly. The saturation curve for p=nitrophenylmyristate was sigmoid and unaffected by citrate. The role of this activity in the metabolism of triacylglycerols by Mycobacteria is discussed.
Pepstatin, a pentapeptide isolated from streptomyces, is a powerful inhibitor of several acid proteases. Its ability to inhibit the renin-angiotensinogen reaction was studied in vitro, in various human plasma. A 50% inhibition of plasma renin activity was obtained with 10(-6)M pepstatin at pH 5.7 and 10(-5)M at pH 7.4. The inhibition of plasma renin activity by pepstatin was studied in hypertensive patients with various plasma renin levels. The inhibitory effect could be demonstrated in patients with low, normal and high renin activity at both pH's. The type of inhibition and the inhibitory constant were investigated by Dixon plot and Lineweaver-Burk plot in three separate experiments. On both representations, a competitive type of inhibition was found with an inhibitory constant of about 1.2 x 10(-6)M.
The paramagnetic effect of Mn(II) on (13)C and (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance signals from the [2-(13)C]ATP adenylylated glutamine synthetase [L-glutamate:ammonia ligase (ADP-forming); EC 6.3.1.2] from Escherichia coli was measured. This effect permitted the determination of distances from the 2-C position and the phosphorus of covalently bound AMP to the two Mn(II) binding sites, n(1) and n(2). Binding of Mn(II) to the n(1) site converts an inactive apo-enzyme to its active form, while the metal ion bound at n(2) occupies the metal-nucleotide substrate site. The distances from Mn(II) at the n(1) and n(2) sites to phosphorus are approximately 10 and approximately 7 A and to the 2-C position of the adenine ring are approximately 12 and approximately 11 A, respectively. The fluorescence energy transfer method was used to determine distances between Co(II) at n(1) and n(2) and the adenylyl site. For this experiment the enzyme was adenylylated with epsilon-ATP. The distances between epsilon-adenine and Co(II) at n(1) and n(2) are approximately 13 and approximately 11 A, respectively. Quantitation of the paramagnetic effect due to Co(II) on the (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance signal yielded values of 8 and 6 A for the distances between the phosphorus of the covalently bound AMP and the n(1) and n(2) sites, respectively. The results reveal that the covalent modification site is very close to the catalytic center of the enzyme. In this study both nuclear magnetic resonance and fluorescence energy transfer techniques have been used to determine distances between the same set of sites on an enzyme surface.
Regulation of the levels of aspartate transcarbamylase (carbamoylphosphate:L-aspartate carbamoyltransferase, EC 2.1.3.2) and dihydroorotase (L-5,6-dihydro-orotate amidohydrolase, EC 3.5.2.3) was studied in synchronous cultures of the eucaryotic microorganism Chlorella. Analytical polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and sucrose density-gradient centrifugation studies revealed that these cells contain a single aspartate transcarbamylase and a dihydroorotase with apparent molecular weights of 160 000 and 80 000, respectively. In synchronous cells cultured in nitrate medium, these two enzymes accumulated in single step-patterns over different periods of the cell cycle. In contrast, these enzymes accumulated in a coordinate manner throughout the cell cycle in ammonium medium. Experiments with inhibitors of protein and RNA synthesis indicated that dihydroorotase is stable in vivo and suggested that cell cycle changes in the turnover rate of aspartate transcarbamylase might determine whether or not these enzymes accumulate in a coordinate manner. Although uracil and uridine could be absorbed and metabolized by the cells, synthesis of these two enzymes could not be repressed by culturing synchronous cells in medium, containing high concentrations (29-40 mM) of uracil or uridine, for an entire cell cycle.
The results obtained and the laboratory methods used for the isolation of viruses and bacteria from Malaysian children with acute respiratory illnesses seen in a private clinic are described. Of the 65 children studied virus isolations were obtained from 26 children, bacteria from 10 and both virus and bacteria from another 5. The agents isolated were influenza viruses, parainfluenza viruses, adenoviruses, Bordetella pertussis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae and Staphylococcus pyogenes.
Serum gamma-glutamyl transferase activity (gamma-GT) was measured in 108 uraemic patients, 110 patients on regular haemodialysis and 71 sucessfully transplanted patients. The incidence of abnormal results was 11, 14 and 28%, respectively. The results in the non-dialyzed and dialyzed patients indicate that in uraemia serum gamma-GT activity remains normal and as such, significant hepatic microsomal enzyme induction does not appear to occur. Raised serum gamma-GT in uraemic patients and after renal transplantation should suggest concurrent, added, pathology such as hepatobiliary disease or the administration of hepatic microsomal enzyme inducing drugs.
On the basis of published data and of 702 osteosyntheses carried out using the Pohl sliding hip screw, the authors come to the conclusion that the mortality rate in geriatric patients is not correlated to the method of osteosynthesis used. Of utmost importance are immediate operation and early mobilisation. The osteosynthesis of intertrochanteric fractures in geriatric patients must facilitate early loading of the fracture site. This paper compares intramedullary nails, pertrochanteric blade plates, Y-nails and sliding hip screws, and contrasts these with the authors' own experience with the Pohl sliding hip screw.
There is considerable similarity between paranoid schizophrenia and psychoses provoked by dopaminergic overstimulation in the central nervous system. The fact that neuroleptics are able to block dopaminergic neural activity has led to the hypothesis that there might exist a common biochemical substrate for schizophrenia and e. g. the amphetamine psychoses. Dopaminergic overstimulation may be elicited by different drugs interacting with the dopamine metabolism e. g. dopamine-beta-hydroxylase inhibition (disulfiram, fusaric acid); monoamine-oxidase-inhibition (phenelzine, tranylcypromine); dopamine release (amphetamine); stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors (bromocriptine, apomorphine). Resulting psychotic symptoms consist of ideas of reference, delusions, visual and acustic hallucinations in a clear setting of consciousness. Psychoses occur usually in subjects, who have suffered from various psychiatric illnesses, which have apparently in common a reduced monoamine-oxidase activity in platelets. It is concluded from various biochemical findings, that psychoses resulting from dopaminergic overstimulation and schizophrenia have different biological substrates.
1. The effects of carbon dioxide, oxygen and pH on the inversion intensity of phototaxis of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii have been investigated. 2. With decreasing with CO2 tension the inversion intensity is decreased. 3. The gassing with CO2 can be substituted by hydrogencarbonate only to a small extent (20%). On the other hand, the effect of decreasing CO2 tension can be prevented also only in part by adjusting the pH to about 6.5-7.0. Thus the effect of CO2 on the inversion intensity of phototaxis is obviously a composite of a true CO2 effect and an effect of the concomitant pH change. 4. Oxygen has only a slight effect. In presence of oxygen (air) the phototactic reaction values are somewhat lower than in its absence. 5. Under certain conditions circadian rhythms seem to be initiated by changing oxygen as well as CO2 tensions. 6. Based on these results some contradictory results of older investigations are discussed.
The effects of prostaglandin E1, E2, F2alpha (PGE2 PGF2alpha), isoproterenol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, salbutamol, practolol, atropine, aminophylline, and corticosterone on the hypersensitivity to anaphylaxis, histamine, and serotonin in Bordetella pertussis-treated mice and propranolol-treated mice were investigated. Female HLA-SW (ICR) mice, 27-29 gm, were injected with pertussis vaccine intravenously 4 days before challenge with antigen, histamine, or serotonin. Alternatively, instead of pertussis vaccine, propranolol was injected intraperitoneally 45 min before histamine challenge. Test drugs were administered intraperitoneally 15 min before challenge. PGE1 and PGE2 at a narrow range of between 10 and 100 mug and epinephrine at 100 mug protected both pertussis- and propranolol-treated mice. Isoproterenol (25 mug) and aminophilline (800 mug) protected beta-blocked mice, but did not protect pertussis-treated mice even with very high doses (1,000 and 3,2000 mug, respectively), although salbutamol (500 mug) did. PGF2alpha, norepinephrine, and atropine were not protective at all. Practolol, a beta 1-blocker, given intraperitoneally 30 min before histamine neither sensitized normal mice nor changed the effect of isoproterenol or salbutamol in pertussis-treated mice. Corticosterone 10 mg/kg reduced the number of deaths from histamine in beta-blocked mice, but not in pertussis-treated mice. The protective effect is discussed in connection with probable effects of the drugs on intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels.
The increase in temperature leads to a decrease in pKa of the group responsible for the activation of CaATP2- hydrolysis by myosin in the alkaline zone of pH. At 20-25 degrees the pKa value is about 9. The value of ionization heat (deltaHi) calculated from pKa temperature dependence is 7.6+/-+/-0.8 kcal/mol. These values are approximated to the values known for phenol hydroxyl of tyrosine. It has been demonstrated that the acceleration of CaATP2- hydrolysis at alkaline values of pH is accompanied by an increase in the Arrhenius energy of activation (Ea), determined from the temperature dependence of the maximal reaction rate (V). The increase of Ea at alkaline values of pH is apparent and is due to an increase in the concentration of a deprotonized form of the enzyme, having a higher activity. A comparison of activation parameters of the reaction at alkaline and neutral values of pH permits to conclude that the acceleration of CaATP2- hydrolysis at alkaline values of pH is due to the acceleration of the limiting step of the reaction. It has also been found that at alkaline values of pH the power of myosin binding with ADP, a competitive inhibitor and the reaction product, is decreased. It is assumed that the acceleration of ATP hydrolysis at alkaline values of pH is due to accelerated dissociation of the reaction products from the active centre of the enzyme, as a result of ionization of a functional group of myosin, probably of the tyrosine residue.
Impaired healing induced by leakage of bile has been postulated as one factor responsible for complications after reconstructive bile duct surgery. The cytotoxicity of human bile and its major bile acids on cultured human fibroblasts was therefore studied by evaluation of their effects on cell morphology and growth, on synthesis and secretion of 35SO4-mucopolysaccharides and on release of a lysosomal enzyme. Normal human fibroblasts derived from a standard culture strain (MRC-5) were grown to confluence and exposed to: (1) sterile human T-tube bile, (2) a mixture of bile acids resembling that of human bile, or (3) various concentrations of the glycine- and taurine conjugates of cholic, chenodeoxycholic or deoxycholic acid. Medium containing whole bile (total bile acid concentration 0.25, 0.75 or 1.6 mmol/l) exerted time and dose dependent cytotoxic effects on morphology and growth and release of lysosomal enzyme. Synthesis and secretion of 35SO4-mucopolysaccharides were markedly inhibited. The bile acid mixture exhibited the same time and dose dependent effects. The conjugates of deoxycholic acid were found to be the most toxic of the individual bile acids studied.
1 The potencies relative to isoprenaline of isoetharine, tertiary butyl noradrenaline, salbutamol, orciprenaline, Me 506, rimiterol, fenoterol, carbuterol and terbutaline on isolated preparations of guinea-pig trachea and blood vessels (perfused hind limb) were determined. All the compounds were selective for trachea and selectivity values, i.e. relative potency on trachea divided by relative potency on hind limb, ranged from 2.3 to 21.4. 2 Responses to isoprenaline (the reference compound), tertiary butyl noradrenaline and isoetharine were potentiated on trachea by 50 muM phenoxybenzamine (PHB) and by other inhibitors of extraneuronal uptake (ENU). Under these conditions the selectivity values of all the compounds was close to unity. 3 Selectivity values were also close to unity if they were calculated from data obtained without ENU inhibition, provided that only those compounds not potentiated by PHB on trachea were used. 4 It is proposed that the trachea-blood vessel selectivity shown by beta-adrenoceptor stimulants can be caused by the influence of ENU upon them, rather than by their ability to distinguish between two beta2-adrenoceptors. 5 The suggestion that differences exist between beta2-adrenoceptors in respiratory and vascular smooth muscle is not supported by the in vitro experiments described.
Mouse spleen cells could be preparatively separated into immunoglobulin positive (Ig+) and immunoglobulin-netative (Ig-)populations by incubating as many as 2 X 10(8) cells per 100 mm diameter petri plate coated with specifically purified goat anti-mouse immunoglobulin. The non-adherent population was 95% or more Ig-, and possessed graft versus host and cytotoxic effector activities, as would be expected for T cells. They could also give a mixed lymphocyte reaction and generate cytotoxic effector activity on culture in vitro. The adherent cells could not be released undamaged from plates coated with undiluted anti-Ig, but they could be released from plates coated with a 1/4 or 1/10 dilution of anti-Ig in an irrelevant antibody. The released cells were over 90% viable by trypan-blue staining, and 94% or more of the viable cells were Ig+.
The type A or 'acid' and type B or 'neutral' beta-galactosidase activities have been measured in post-mortem liver samples from individuals dying of non-genetic diseases and patients dying of ganglioside storage disease other than GM1 gangliosidosis. The type A activities fell within the established normal range in all samples. The type B activities showed a biomodal distribution suggesting the occurrence of two distinct populations of human individuals. The greater proportion had activities within the range 11.67 pkat/mg of protein (+/- 3.33, S.D.), while others had lower activities in the range 0.48 pkat/mg of protein (+/- 0.38, S.D.). No clinical symptoms were associated with the much lower type B beta-galactosidase activities and it appears that this beta-galactosidase deficiency could be found in the original tissues. Methods of screening for type B beta-galactosidase deficiency are described and the significance of this enzyme deficiency is discussed.
The interaction of manganous ions with pig heart triphosphopyridine nucleotide (TPN) specific isocitrate dehydrogenase has been studied by kinetic experiments and by direct ultrafiltration measurements of manganous ion binding. At low metal ion concentrations, a lag is observed in the time-dependent production of reduced triphosphopyridine nucleotide (TPNH) that can be eliminated by adding 20 muM TPNH to the initial reaction mixture. A plot of 1/upsilon vs. 1/ (Mn2+) obtained at relatively high TPNH concentrations (20 muM) is linear and yields of Km value of 2 muM for metal ion, which is comparable to the direct binding constant measured in the presence of isocitrate. A similar plot at low TPNH concentrations (2 muM) reveals a biphasic relationship: at high metal concentrations the points are collinear with those obtained at high levels of TPNH, but at low metal concentrations that line is characterized by a Km of 19 muM for Mn2+. A difference in the deuterium oxide solvent isotope effect on Vmax observed with 20 muM TPNH as compared with 2 muM TPNH suggests that at high TPNH concentrations or high manganous ion concentrations the rate-limiting step is the dehydrogenation of isocitrate, while at low manganous ion concentrations and low TPNH concentrations, the slow step is the decarboxylation of enzyme-bound oxalosuccinate. Evidence to support this hypothesis is provided by the sensitivity to isocitrate concentration of the Km for total manganese measured in the presence of 20 muM TPNH that contrasts with the relative insensitivity to isocitrate of the Km measured at 2 muM TPNH and low manganous ion concentration. Direct measurements of oxalosuccinate decarboxylation reveal that the Vmax and the Km for manganous ion are influenced by the presence of oxidized or reduced TPN with the Km being lowest (5-7 muM) in the presence of TPNH. The dependence of the Km for manganous ion on the presence of substrate, TPN, and TPNH, is responsible for the variation with conditions in the rate-determining step. The enzyme binds only 1 mol of metal ion and 1 mol of isocitrate/mol of protein under all conditions. The pH dependence of the binding of free manganous ion, free isocitrate, and manganous-isocitrate complex indicates differences in the interaction of these species with isocitrate dehydrogenase. These results can be described in terms of two functions for manganous ion in the reactions catalyzed by isocitrate dehydrogenase, each of which requires a distinct binding site for metal ion: in the dehydrogenation step, Mn2+ facilitates the binding of the substrate isocitrate, and in the decarboxylation step it may stabilize the enolate of alpha-ketoglutarate which is generated.
The vitamin B-12-intrinsic factor receptor was shown to be present in pig ileum and localized on the brush borders of the enterocytes, and to be solubilisable with Triton X-100. At neutral pH and in the presence of Ca2+ it bound the vitamin B-12-intrinsic factor but not the vitamin B-12-cobalophilin complex. The solubilised vitamin B-12-intrinsic factor-receptor complex consisted of two molecular species with clear Stokes radii (13.11 and 33.53 nm), sedimentation coefficients (15.1 and 45.1 S) and molecular weights (1 600 000  and 12 000 000). A third smaller macromolecule possibly also represented the receptor. Some receptor activity was present in extracts prepared with buffers lacking detergent. There was evidence that the receptor is a membrane lipoprotein from which the lipids reversibly dissociate. Free intrinsic factor also bound to the solubilized receptor and its vitamin B-12-binding site seemed not to be involved in the attachment to the receptor. A small portion of the vitamin B-12-intrinsic factor spontaneously dissociated from the receptor and nearly all dissociated in the presence of Na2-EDTA. TheStokes radius of the dissociated vitamin B-12-intrinsic factor complex was 0.17 nm smaller than before binding to the receptor. Intrinsic factor and cobalophilin were present in ileal extract and observations were made on their molecular characteristics. These proteins, polymers of the vitamin B-12-intrinsic factor complex and binding of vitamin B-12 and its protein complexes to detergent micelles may give spurious receptor-like effects which must be properly controlled.
The partial purification of rat and calf liver dihydropyrimidinase (EC 3.5.2.2) is described. Molecular weights of the native calf and rat liver enzymes were estimated by gel-filtration chromatography to be 252,000 and 266,000 daltons, respectively. Subunit molecular weights of the calf and rat liver enzyme were estimated by SDS-gel electrophoresis to be 59,000 and 62,000 daltons, respectively. The native enzyme in both species is thought to comprise four subunits. The purified enzyme from both species was capable of catalyzing the hydrolytic ring opening of dihydrouracil, 5-phenylhydantoin, hydantoin, and alpha-phenylsuccinimide.
Hemoglobin (Hb) Tarrant was detected by its electrophoretic mobility on cellulose acetate (pH 8.4) and citrate agar (pH 6.2). On cellulose acetate it moved as a band between hemoglobins F and S, and on citrate agar as a band at hemoglobin S. The test for solubility in 2 M phosphate buffer with Na2S2O4 was negative. The new variant has a substitution of asparagine for aspartic acid in position 126 of the alpha-chain, one of the sites involved in the alpha1beta1 contact.  Furthermore, in deoxyhemoglobin aspartic acid 126 of each alpha chain also forms a non-covalent electrostatic salt bridge with arginine 141 of the corresponding alpha chain (Perutz, M. F. and Ten Eyck, L. F. (1972) Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 36, 295-310 and Perutz, M. F. (1970) Nature 228, 726-739). As a consequence of this substitution in hemoglobin Tarrant, the deoxy conformation or T state is destabilized because these two bridges cannot be formed. This condition is reflected in high oxygen affinity and low cooperativity.
Diaphragms from rats under 24-h-old did not show the well-known increased transport of alpha-aminoisobutyrate found in older tissues in respone to insulin in vitro. A small effect was apparent by 3 days, and stimulation increased as donor rats aged (up to 4--5 wk). One-day diaphragms also had greater uptake than older tissues, due to both decreased Km and elevated Vmax. The change in insulin sensitivity did not result from alteration in the transport system used by alpha-aminoisobutyrate because uptake showed characteristics of the A system at both 1 day and older. Results suggest instead that the 1-day tissues had been made insulin-resistant by high insulin levels in donor animals. Plasma insulin levels of 1-day-old rats were 5 times those of 5-day animals. Elevating the plasma insulin levels of 5-day or 25- to 35-day rats led to a decreased effectiveness of insulin in vitro in stimulating alpha-aminoisobutyrate transport into their diaphragms. In the older animals, the stimulation was inversely proportional to the plasma insulin level 2 h after insulin injection.
When lysozyme is reacted with 4-chloro-7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBD-CL), A 1:1 covalent product is produced, in which the NBD group arylates the phenolic hydroxyl group of Tyr-23 (Aboderin, A. A., and Boedefeld, E. (1976) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 420, 177). Changing the pH from neutral to alkaline conditions results in a large spectral shift of the absorption band associated with the NBD chromophore (Aboderin, A. A., Boedefeld, E., and Luisi, P. L. (1973) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 328, 30). In the present work it is shown that this spectral change is due to the formation of a sigma complex in which a hydroxyl ion is added to the aromatic nucleus of the nitrobenzoxadiazole system. Circular dichroic studies suggest that the NBD group is held in a conformationally rigid state in the protein. The kinetics of the spectral change accompanying the formation of the sigma complex has been investigated with a rapid mixing stopped flow spectrophotometer both in the modified enzyme and in the low molecular weight model compounds N-acetyl-(O-NBD)-L-tyrosinamide and glycyl-(O-NBD)-L-tyrosine. In the pH range from 10.1 to 12.7, the time course of the reaction is first order in the case of the modified enzyme (k = 4.8 s-1) and bimolecular and much slower (under pseudo-first order conditions) in the low molecular weight compounds. It is suggested that in the enzyme the reaction proceeds much faster because of the hydrophobic environment around the reacting groups. It is further suggested that the unimolecularity in the enzyme is due to a rate-determining isomerization step, probably connected with a local rearrangement of the protein conformation following the ionization of Tyr-20.
This study was conducted in Bombay, India, to evaluate the role of oral methylergonovine maleate (Methergine, Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, N.J., USA) in augmenting the effect of intermittent extraamniotic instillation of 20% saline for midtrimester abortion in 200 patients. Methylergonovine maleate (MEM) administration was randomly allocated to half the study subjects. All the study procedures were performed by a single operator, and to minimize evaluator bias, another physician evaluated all the study patients after abortion. This study showed that a statistically significant higher percentage of patients in the MEM treated group aborted within 24 hours. At 36 and 48 hours, the differences were not statistically significant, although the cumulative abortion rates were higher for subjects who received the drug than for those who did not. The incidence of incomplete abortions was lower for those treated with MEM than for those not treated with the drug, but the difference was not statistically significant. The rates of complications and side effects were similar for both study groups.
The intercellular junctions between adjacent supporting cells and between apposed hair and supporting cells in the organ of Corti of cat and human were studied. At the endolymphatic surface, the intercellular space was closed by a series of tight junctions (zonula occludens), whereas there were no tight junctions at the basilar membrane surface of the neuroepithelium. Beneath the adlumenal zonula occludens between adjacent supporting cells, a zonula adherens (intermediate junction, "desmosone") was found. Many gap junctions joined apposed supporting cells both within apposed hair and supporting cells, membrane specialization sharing the morphological characterics of both the macula adherens and zonula adherens was found. Between cells, there were short areas of parallel limiting membranes separated by a 20A intercellular space. These areas were suggestive but not characteristic of gap junctional specialization. The functional significance of the junctional specialization between cells in the organ of Corti is discussed.
The abnormal accumulation of lipids due to myo-inositol deficiency in Saccharomyces carlsbergensis, and the mechanism involved was investigated. The deficient cells contained much more neutral lipids with a greater ratio of unsaturated fatty acids compared to the supplemented cells, whereas there was no significant change in their phospholipid contents. The biosynthesis of fatty acids and sterols from acetate, and of triacylglycerols and sterol esters from palmitate was markedly augmented in the deficient cells. Acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity of the deficient supernatant was 2- to 5-fold higher than that of the supplemented. However, the activity from both sources was not significantly different after Sephadex G-25 gel filtration of the supernatant, suggesting the presence of low molecular effector(s) in the deficient supernatant. There was a great increase in acid-soluble glycogen, trehalose, and fructose-1,6-P2, as well as a drastic decrease in citrate in the deficient cells. Their intracellular levels were calculated so that their effects on acetyl-CoA carboxylase was examined over the range of physiological concentration. Citrate strongly inhibited the enzyme activity of the supernatant, but it had no effect on the preparation after gel filtration. On the other hand, fructose-1,6-P2 stimulated the enzyme activity both before and after gel filtration. The acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity in the gel filtrate was measured as a function of citrate concentration at several fixed concentrations of fructose-1,6-P2. Citrate counteracted the activation by fructose-1,6-P2 in a dose-dependent manner. Citrate lacked the inhibitory effect in the absence of fructose-1,6-P2. It was concluded from these results that neutral lipid accumulation in the deficient cells reflected an increase in the synthesis of fatty acids, at least partly based on an enhancement of acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity, and that the operation of a reciprocal regulation of the enzyme by fructose-1,6-P2 and citrate caused a marked elevation of the enzyme activity in the deficient cells with a high fructose-1,6-P2 level and a low citrate level.
The distribution of 89Sr (carrier-free) in the bound (non-diffusible) and free (diffusible) forms was studied in vitro in the soft tissues of the albino rat by the ultrafiltration method. The influence of factors such as time and temperature of incubation with 89Sr, concentration and medium of the homogenate, pH and age of the animal on the binding of 89Sr was investigated. The binding increased with rise in pH, being maximum in the pH range 7.0--9.0. The distribution pattern varied with the tissues, the bound form (at pH 7.4) being as high as 84 per cent in the small intestine and as low as 20 per cent in the skin, whereas it was about 40--45 per cent in kidney, liver, lung, skeletal muscle and blood serum. The bound form in most of the tissues of the weanling rats was in general lower than that in 6-month or 1-year-old rats. In the serum, 89Sr was mostly bound to globulins. The bound form of 89Sr was also determined by the method of equilibrium dialysis for comparison.
Hemocyanin from the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, sediments at 25.7 S and has a native molecular weight of 940 000 +/- 20 000. Under solution conditions of increased pH (approximately 10) or ionic strength, the native molecule dissociates to a 17 S species. Reversal of this dissociation was unsuccessful. At pH 10 and with the removal of Mg2+, the 17 S species reversibly dissociates to form a subunit species which sediments at 6 S. A comparison of the circular dichroic spectra of the 25.7 S and 6 S hemocyanins suggests that little happens to the structural integrity of the polypeptide backbone upon the two dissociations. Molecular weight estimations under reducing and denaturing conditions indicate that the 6 S hemocyanin species represents the constituent polypeptide chain of the protein molecule. Chemical analysis suggests the presence of a small amount, less than 3%, of carbohydrate bound to the polypeptide chain. Electrophoresis of the hemocyanin in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate or urea reveals two major electrophoretic species of either slightly different chemical composition or slightly different polypeptide chain length.
The in vitro activity of a new semisynthetic penicillin, piperacillin, was determined against 577 clinical isolates of gram-positive cocci and gram-negative bacilli. A concentration of 12.5 mug/ml inhibited 92% of isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 82% of Serratia marcescens, 73% of Escherichia coli, 61% of Klebsiella spp., and 42% of Enterobacter spp. Most Proteus spp. were extremely susceptible; over 85% were inhibited by 0.10 mug/ml. Piperacillin failed to inhibit the growth of gram-negative bacilli when large inocula were used. The type of media and pH had variable effects on the activity of piperacillin, depending upon the organism. Piperacillin was generally less active than PC-904 against gram-negative bacilli, but was consistently more active than carbenicillin and ticarcillin.
The pharmacotherapy of minimal brain dysfunction (MBD) is reviewed. Studies using central nervous system (CNS) stimulants (amphetamines and methylphenidate, deanol, pemoline, caffeine), antidepressants (imipramine and desipramine), anticonvulsants (phenytoin and primidone), antianxiety agents (chlordiazepoxide, hydroxyzine, meprobamate), antipsychotic agents (phenothiazines, thioxanthenes, butyrophenones) and miscellaneous agents (benztropine, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, megavitamins) are discussed. When drugs are indicated, the CNS stimulants are the agents of choice in the treatment of MBD. The use of tricyclic antidepressants in MBD is regarded as investigational and warrants careful monitoring to minimize toxicities. Anticonvulsants have been ineffective in controlling behavior problems; however, phenytoin may be helpful in auditory perception problems. Anti-anxiety and antipsychotic agents are not as desirable as the CNS stimulants for treatment since they do not decrease distractibility or increase attention spans.
It appears that the bacteria of the mouth are remarkably similar throughout the world. There are differences, but they are mostly of a quantitative rather than a qualitative nature. Although much is yet to be learned on the regulation of the oral ecosystems, these quantitative fluctuations to a large extent seem to be induced by different dietary patterns: the food exerting a strong selective pressure on the oral microbiota.
1. The morphology of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, plasma renin activity, plasma renin substrate and renal renin have been studied in rats after maximal stimulation by bilateral adrenalectomy and salt depletion, and also after blocking this stimulation by deoxycorticosterone and salt load. 2. After stimulation the juxtaglomerular apparatus showed a well-developed granular endoplasmic reticulum and a low secretory granule content. Plasma renin activity was markedly elevated and plasma renin substrate was low. After blockade numerous specific granules with crystalline structures were seen and the granular endoplasmic reticulum was less developed. Plasma renin activity was now low and plasma renin substrate elevated. 3. After prior acidification of the kidney extract a significant increase of renal renin was observed in both conditions but was greater in the second group at the time when large numbers of young granules containing crystalline material were seen. 4. Kidney slices from the adrenalectomized salt-depleted rats released more renin than control slices. Vincristine did not affect this release, but inhibited release from slices stimulated by isoprenaline.
Several examples of the manifest dreams reported by a patient with a compulsive neurosis are presented. An outstanding feature of the dreams was the sudden shift of the dreamer's self-representation from the role of criminal to the role of policeman. This shift is thought to parallel the oscillation between unconscious instinctual gratification and conscious attempts at reparation which is the main dynamic feature of the compulsive neurosis in waking life. The shift of orientation of the self reflects the operation of early defense mechanisms against the sadistic impulse. It also portrays graphically an early stage in the internalization process which leads ultimately to the creation of the superego. The repetitive nature of the dreams indicated that the patient had become fixated at this particular point in the course of his psychic development. It is interesting to note that like the Rat Man this patient suffered from a chronically undescended testicle. The real defect in the sexual apparatus in both patients may have been a factor which favored regression of the libido from the genital stage to the anal-sadistic stage.
Evidence is presented that the changes in absorption spectrum obtained on complex formation between Old Yellow Enzyme and phenolic compounds are due to charge-transfer interactions. The positive correlation between the energy of the long wavelength transition and the Hammett para constant with a series of para-substituted phenols indicates that the phenol is the charge-transfer donor and the oxidized flavin of the enzyme is the charge-transfer acceptor. The same conclusion is drawn from studies in which the flavin of the native enzyme, flavin mononucleotide, was replaced by a variety of artificial flavins of different oxidation-reduction potential. The effect of pH on the dissociation constant for the enzyme-ligand binding also indicates that it is the phenolate anion, rather than the conjugate acid, which is responsible for the charge-transfer interaction. The significance of these results is discussed relative to long wavelength absorbing species detected with other flavoproteins.
Energized cells of Streptococcus lactis conserve and transduce energy at the plasma membrane in the form of an electrochemical gradient of hydrogen ions (deltap). An increase in energy-consuming processes, such as cation transport, would be expected to result in a change in the steady state deltap. We determined the electrical gradient (deltapsi) from the fluorescence of a membrane potential-sensitive cyanine dye, and the chemical H+ gradient (deltaph) from the distribution of a weak acid. In glycolyzing cells incubated at pH5 the addition of NaCl to 200 mM partially dissipated the deltap by decreasing deltapsi, while the delta pH was constant. The deltap was also determined independently from the accumulation levels of thiomethyl-beta-galactoside. The deltap values decreased in cells fermenting glucose at pH 5 or pH 7 when NaCl was added, while the deltapH values were unaffected; cells fermenting arginine at pH 7 showed similar effects. Thus, these nongrowing cells cannot fully compensate for the energy demand of cation transport.
Methindion demethylation was shown to occur in rats. This process proceeds with the participation of NADPH-dependent transport system of microsomal electrons. In experiments in vivo methindion demethylation coursed at a high rate and was accompanied by a partial loss of its anticonvulsive effects.
This study was designed to investigate the effects of viruses in the pathogenesis of Listeria monocytogenes. The organisms used in this study were: Listeria monocytogenes Type 1 isolated from a local fatal case; Mouse adapted influenza A/PR8/34 (HONI); Streptococcus pneumoniae Group B (U.M. Med. Ctr.) and poliovirus Type 2 MEF--G3M2. Balb-C mice were inoculated intraperitoneally with one LD50 of Listeria monocytogenes. Ten days later, the survivors were challenged intransally with 10 LD50 of influenza virus and observed for 14 days. Another set of Balb-C mice was inoculated intranasally with one LD50 of influenza virus and the survivors challenged 14 days later intraperitoneally with 10 LD50 of Listeria monocytogenes. Controls consisted of similar inoculation and challenge methods in mice using Streptococcus pneumoniae and polio virus with Listeria monocytogenes and influenza virus. Cross protection was observed only between Listeria monocytogenes and influenza virus. Cellular immunity may play a role in this interaction. This findings seem to agree with reports from others who showed cross protection between Listeria monocytogenes and other intracellular bacteria and parasites.
Isolation of a protective subfraction of ribosomes from Streptococcus pneumoniae has been achieved, and the immune response it induces has been investigated. Mice immunized with pneumococcal ribosomes or purified protein extracted from the ribosomal preparation (2-CE protein) exhibit similar survival rates upon challenge by virulent S. pneumoniae. In contrast, recipients of purified ribosomal ribonucleic acid were never protected against pneumococcal challenge. Serum from mice immunized with pneumococcal ribosomes or 2-CE protein passively immunized syngeneic recipients against pneumococcal challenge, whereas spleen cells from the same donors were unable to transfer immunity. Passive immunization with antiribosome serum could be abrogated by absorption with whole ribosomes, 2-CE protein, or various serotypes of S. pneumoniae (capsular types 2, 3, 6, and 14). Antiribosome serum significantly enhanced clearance of S. pneumoniae from mouse blood in vivo and in vitro. This required phagocytic cells, since antiribosome serum alone, with or without complement, supported growth of S. pneumoniae to an extent comparable to normal serum. The data suggest that the primary immunogen of pneumococcal ribosomes resides in the protein fraction. Further, the immunity induced by the protein fraction is mediated by antibody that appears to function as an opsonin for S. pneumoniae.
The enzymic decarboxylation of stereoisomers of DOPS was examined using rat brain and kidney decarboxylase. Optimal assay conditions for racemic threo- and racemic erythro-DOPS decarboxylation were determined by the experiments concerning 1) time course, linear for 20 min, 2) optimal pH, pH 8.2, 3) optimal temperature, 37 degrees C except racemic L-threo-DOPS decarboxylation by kidney enzyme and 4) protein concentration, 1 to 5 mg in incubation medium. Under the optimal assay condition, Km of brain enzyme for L-threo-DOPS was 1.43 X 10(-3)M and Vmax, 2.22 nmoles NE/mg/15min, and Km for racemic erythro-DOPS was 10(-3)M  and Vmas, 4.3 nmoles NE/mg/15min. Km of kidney enzyme for L-threo-DOPS was 1.37 X 10(-3)M and Vmax 21 nmoles NE/mg/15min, and Km for racemic erythro-DOPS was 8.7 X 10(-4)M and Vmax, 16.7 nmoles NE/mg/15min. On the other hand, D-threo and D-erythro-DOPS were scarcely decarboxylated. Decarboxylation of L-threo-DOPS in kidney enzyme was markedly inhibited by D-threo-DOPS. Kinetic analysis revealed that the type of inhibition was non-competitive. In helically-cut strips of isolated rabbit aorta, the contractile response to NE (10(-8)g/ml) formed from L-threo-DOPS was 95% that of 1-NE (10(-8)g/ml) while the response to NE (10(-8)g/ml) formed from racemic erythro-DOPS was not detectable. These results suggest that L-threo-DOPS is a more effective precursor of natural 1-NE than racemic threo-DOPS.
Inhibitory effect of 44 species of fatty acids on cholesterol synthesis has been examined with a rat liver enzyme system. In the case of saturated fatty acids, the inhibitory activity increased with chain length to a maximum at 11 to 14 carbons, after which activity decreased rapidly. The inhibition increased with the degree of unsaturation of fatty acids. Introduction of a hydroxy group at the alpha-position of fatty acids abolished the inhibition, while the inhibition was enhanced by the presence of a hydroxy group located in an intermediate position of the chain. Branched chain fatty acids having a methyl group at the terminal showed much higher activity than the corresponding saturated straight chain fatty acids with the same number of carbons. With respect to the mechanism for inhibition, tridecanoate was found to inhibit acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase specifically without affecting the other reaction steps in the cholesterol synthetic pathway. The highly unsaturated fatty acids, arachidonate and linoleate, were specific inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA synthase. On the other hand, ricinoleate (hydroxy acid) and phytanate (branched-chain acid) diminished the conversion of mevalonate to sterols by inhibiting a step or steps between squalene and lanosterol.
Two cases of lung granulomata associated with "crescentic" glomerulonephritis both in a clinical setting of polyarteritis nodosa were treated with high doses of intravenous methylprednisolone ("pulse therapy") in single injections of 30 mg/kg body-weight. In the first case rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with 100% crescents was arrested and followed by improvement of renal function from a creatinine clearance of 5 ml/min to 30 ml/min; in the second case multiple lung granulomata of 8 months' standing, unresponsive to oral steroids, disappeared 8 days after treatment with high dosage intravenous methylprednisolone. The use of "pulse therapy" with methylprednisolone is advocated, not only in such cases where arteritis is known or suspected, but also in radidly progressive glomerulonephritis associated with crescents.
Sensitization is an elementary form of nonassociative learning, related to behavioral arousal, in which a strong stimulus facilitates a reflex response. Studies of the neural circuit of the gill-withdrawal reflex in the isolated abdominal ganglion on Aplysia indicate that short-term sensitization is due to presynaptic facilitation. The facilitation results in a sudden increase in the amount of neurotransmitter released by the sensory neurons at their synapses with motor neurons.
An in vitro RNA-synthesizing system consisting of gently lysed E. coli cells on cellophane discs is described. The system has been optimalized with respect to total RNA synthesis. Under certain standard conditions DNA dependent RNA polymerase (EC 2.7.7.6) is responsible for the majority of the RNA synthesis. The extensive rifampicin sensitivity of the synthesis indicates that most of the transcripts are initiated in vitro. The RNA synthesizing system described here has been developed with the aim of studying phage transcription in vitro. We show here that lysates of a P4 infected P2 lysogen support initiation and propagation of transcription from the P2 prophage.
When dexamethasone 0.25 or 2.5 mumole/kg i.p. was injected 2 h before reserpine (16 mumol/kg i.p.) the time course of the increase in cAMP content of rat adrenal medulla was changed. Reserpine alone caused a monophasic increase lasting between 1-2 h; reserpine after dexamethasone caused a biphasic increase: the immediate response, lasting between 15 and 30 min, was followed by a secondary increase beginning 2-3 h after reserpine and lasting for several hours. The overall increase in cAMP content elicited by reserpine during the 8 h following injection remained unchanged or was even increased, depending on the dose of dexamethasone. Pretreatment with dexamethasone, which delayed the increase in cAMP, also delayed the activation and translocation of protein kinase and the induction of tyrosine hydroxylase caused by reserpine in adrenal medulla. The action of reserpine on the cAMP content of adrenal medulla required an intact innervation and did not appear to be related to increased secretion of ACTH from pituitary. In denervated adrenals reserpine failed to increase the cAMP content of the medulla but not that of the cortex.
After T4 bacteriophage infects Escherichia coli, a peptide tau, produced under the control of a phage gene, binds to the host valyl transfer ribonucleic acid synthetase (EC 6.1.1.9) and thereby changes several of its physicochemical properties. The interaction of tau with the host enzyme was investigated in vitro after extensively purifying the factor from T4-infected E. coli using a rapid purification procedure. The tau preparation migrated as a single, protein-staining band with a molecular weight of 11,000 during sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis. The purified peptide completely converted partially purified valyl-tRNA synthetase from uninfected E. coli into the form present in cell-free extracts prepared from virus-infected bacteria. The enzyme modified in vitro also exhibited the enhanced affinity for tRNA characteristic of the viral form of valyl-tRNA synthetase. The addition of bulk tRNA from E. coli B, tRNAVal, or tRNA1Val to enzyme modified in vitro increased its sedimentation rate to that of enzyme prepared from phage-infected cells. Amino acid analysis of the purified tau peptide revealed a relatively high concentration of the amino acids lysine and alanine, and a lack of detectable proline, tyrosine, phenylalanine, and methionine.
Bovine liver aminolaevulate dehydratase (ALA-D) has been chemically attached to Sepharose 4B and its properties have been studied. The optimal conditions for coupling have been determined. It was found that the immobilized enzyme retained a significant percentage of the activity of the free enzyme. The coupling yield was rather high. The insolubilized enzyme requires both anaerobiosis and a thiol activator for maximal activity. It can be stored at 4 degrees C for long periods with little loss of activity and it can be repeatedly used without alteration of its enzymic capacity. Attachment of ALA-D to the gel has led to an enhanced thermal stability. pH optima of free and bound enzyme was the same while a small decrease in the Km of the matrix bonded ALA-D as compared to that of the soluble enzyme was observed. The use of the fixed-ALA-D for the preparation of PBG is described.
The measurement of ATP binding to the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane reveals that the calcium pump possesses one high affinity (Kd = 2--3 muM) site. Competition with substrate analogs show the high specifity of that site. At high ATP concentration another class of site can be detected with a much higher dissociation constant (Kd approximately 500 muM). This class of sites is of low specificity and ATP is easily displaced by other polyphosphates. The steady state rate of ATP cleavage is measured in the presence of ATP analogs. It is shown that the catalysis is due to the high affinity site. The activation of the hydrolysis rate at high substrate concentration may be related to the effect of binding of ATP to the weak sites. The effect of ATP analogs for various ATP concentration supports this hypothesis.
The contents of kallikrein [EC 3.4.21.8] in the kidneys of various animals were estimated and the activity was found to be most potent in dogs. The dog renal kallikrein (DRK) was located mainly in the kidney cortex. Following the activation of a dog kidney cortex homogenate with acetone, kallikrein was purified about 2,000-fold with an overall yield of 18% by diethylaminoethyl (DEAE)-cellulose adsorption, acetone fractionation, and chromatography on Sephadex G-75 and DEAE-Sephadex A-50. The final purified preparation of dog renal kallikrein had a vasodilator activity of 65.5 KU per A280, and appeared to be homogeneous both in disc electrophoresis and ultracentrifugal analysis. Its molecular weight was estimated to be approximately 3.8 X 10(4) from the sedimentation coefficient obtained by ultracentrifugation, and by Sephadex gel filtration. However, isoelectric fractionation of the purified DRK preparation gave three isoelectric point, 3.9, 4.1, and 4.3. The DRK had an optimum pH of about 8.6 and was stable at pH 8. This enzyme was hardly inhibited by Trasylol, soybean trypsin inhibitor, ovomucoid trypsin inhibitor or potato kallikrein inhibitors. These properties were compared with those of kallikrein from other sources; DRK appeared to be similar to urinary kallikrein.
1. The state of aggregation of four red-deer (Cervus elaphus L.) beta-lactoglobulin preparations and a control ox beta-lactoglobulin A preparation was studied by sedimentation-equilibrium experiments at pH 6.5 and 20 degrees C. 2. Three of the deer preparations and the ox control each behaved as a monomer-dimer system, with a value of log K (where K is the association constant in litres/mol) in the range 5.4-5.5. 3. When one of these deer preparations was examined in the presence of dithiothreitol, log K appeared to decrease to 4.5.4. One deer preparation, comprising recovered material, appeared to have undergone irreversible changes and to behave like a non-equilibrating system containing monomer, dimer and trimer. 5. The sedimentation-equilibrium properties of the deer monomer was studied in 6M-guanidine hydrochloride at pH 7.0; the mol.wt. was 17600, the second virial coefficient was 3.4 x 10(-3) ml - mol - g-2, and the apparent partial specific volume 0.724 ml/g, a value indicating an appreciable decrease in volume on dissociation and denaturation.
The effects of some general anaesthetics, for example thiopentone, Althesin (alphaxalone + alphadolone) and ketamine, on cerebral vascular smooth muscle are those which would be expected from their metabolic actions. With other anaesthetics, mainly those administered by inhalation, and especially the volatile agents, cerebral blood flow increases in excess of the metabolic activity, which is usually depressed to varying degrees. During general anaesthesia with any of these agents, responses to changes in arterial Pco2 or blood pressure are maintained. Furthermore, when seizure activity occurs during enflurane administration, there is a flow response to the associated metabolic stimulation. The time course of the flow response to the metabolically depressant drug Althesin has been measured in baboons and shown to be very rapid. Wtih this drug cerebrovascular resistance begins to increase within 2 s of its arrival in the brain. This rapid flow change occurs also after sympathetic denervation. Extracellular fluid pH of the cortex does not alter until after the initiation of the vascular smooth muscle response.
A two-week assessment of Benoral tablets was carried out in general practice in 171 patients with degenerative joint disease to see how symptomatic response related to selected presenting features of the disease. A short history, less severe initial state and multiple joint involvement were each associated with a better response. Overall 84-4% of patients reported Benoral tablets to have helped relieve their symptoms and a high proportion preferred Benoral to their previous anti-arthritic medication.
The plasma-protein binding of phenytoin in rats was impaired for more than 14 days after a single injection of sodium oleate compared to that observed in saline-treated controls. A maximum free (unbound) phenytoin fraction value of about 0.30 was found between 30 and 120 min after oleate administration. The free fraction decreased to about 0.20 after 14 days. The free fraction of phenytoin in control rats was essentially constant over this period and averaged about 0.17. The impaired plasma-protein binding of phenytoin was unaffected by prolonged dialysis but was effectively reversed by charcoal treatment of the plasma. Comparison of the in vivo and in vitro effects of sodium oleate on phenytoin binding in plasma indicates that the reduction in binding is unrelated to the in vivo oleate concentration in plasma at the time of the binding determination. For example, 5 min after a bolus injection of oleate, the plasma free fraction of phenytoin was about 0.33. A comparable concentration of oleate in control plasma resulted in a free phenytoin fraction of only 0.21.
An improvement in a previously described method for the determination of plasma salicylic acid and aspirin levels in humans is described. The procedure was simplified by employing only one plasma sample for both salicylates. More accurate estimation of salicylates, particularly aspirin, was achieved by using two different calibration curves. Salicylic acid was estimated by reaction with an aqueous solution of the Folin-Ciocalteu phenol reagent. Absorbance of the blue-colored complex, which formed on addition of sodium hydroxide, was measured at 670 nm. The influence of alkalinity in the formation of the colored complex is discussed. The average recovery of aspirin added to plasma was 94.61%; it was 214.72% by the previous method.
Fatty acid synthesis capacity of the insect Ceratitis capitata has been investigated in vitro from [1-14C]acetyl-CoA using homogenates at different stages of development. A maximum activity was observed after 5--6 days of larval development. But homogenates of the pharate adult insect did not show synthetic capacity of fatty acids. Fatty acid synthetase complex has been isolated from the particle-free supernatant fraction of homogenates from the 6-day C. capitata larvae. The enzyme complex was purified 182-fold with respect to the protein contained in the crude extract. The complex was homogeneous when analysed by gel filtration and by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight was 5.2X10(5). The enzyme was dissociated into half-molecular subunits. Amino acid analysis, general properties, stability and kinetic constants (V and Km) for the substrates are reported. The fatty acid synthetase complex from the insect contains 42+/-1-SH residues and one phosphopatetheine moiety per 5.2X10(5). Activity was dependent on the presence of NADPH; FMN strongly inhibited the enzyme activity promoted by NADPH. The enzyme complex synthesized a range of fatty acid (10:0--18:0), palmitate being the predominant end product. The proportions of fatty acids synthesized varied with substrate concentrations. Fatty acids released from the complex were almost completely in the free form.
Human alpha-thrombin, the thromboplastin activation product of prothrombin with high clotting and esterase activity, was produced from Cohn Fraction III paste. The procedure started with 0.4 to 3.2 kg of frozen paste and was completed in 2 or 3 days. Some 23 g of thrombin were recorded for 65 quantitated preparations made from 11 lots of Fraction III paste. These preparations were obtained at protein concentrations of 3.9 +/- 1.3 mg/ml with a yield of 340 +/- 110 mg/kg of paste, which represented 48 +/- 14% of the clotting potential extracted as prothrombin. They had specific clotting activities of 2.8 +/- 0.4 U.S. (NIH) units/microng of protein and titrated to 88 +/- 8% active with p-nitrophenyl-p'-guanidinobenzoate (NPGB). Those (N - 29) examined by labeling with [14C]diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate (iPr2P-F) and electrophoresing in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gels were found to contain only (N = 4) or predominantly alpha-thrombin (97 +/- 3%) and corresponding amounts of ists degradation product, beta-thrombin (2.6 +/- 3.1%). No plasmin(ogen), prothrombin complex factors (II, VII, IX, IXalpha, X, Xalpha), or prothrombin fragments were detected in representative preparations. As produced in 0.75 M NaCl, pH approximately 6, thrombin was stable for approximately 1 week at 4 degrees and for greater than 1 year at less than or equal to 50 degrees; freeze-dried thrombin stored at 4 degrees for greater than 1 year displayed stable clotting activity and no vial to vial variation, permitting its use for reference purposes. Human thrombin generated by Taipan snake venom activation was compared with that produced by rapid thromboplastin activation: after treatment with [14C]iPr2P-F, greater than 95% of the label in both thrombins migrated at the same rate during electrophoresis in SDS; identical pairs of NH2-terminal residues were released in three consecutive Edman degradation cycles.
N-nitrosomorpholine (NM)-induced pulmonary carcinogenesis was examined by light and electron microscopy in a 20-week serial sacrifice study using Syrian golden hamsters. First to be observed were a proliferation of endocrine APUD cells and a formation of lamellated inclusion bodies in the cytoplasm of Clara cells. After continued NM treatment, APUD cells underwent squamous metaplasia and Clara cells invaded the pulmonary tissues adjacent to the bronchi. Lung tumors consisted of cells possessing numerous lamellated inclusion bodies in their cytoplasm and a few squamous metaplastic and APUD cells. The observed pathologic alterations closely resembled those found after treatment with N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and N-dibutylnitrosamine (DBN) but were completely different from the cellular reactions induced by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. It is concluded that the observed alterations of APUD cells and Clara cells are specific to nitrosamines.
(1) Three alloys, G-3, SMG-2,  and Ceramco-0, showed no ductility in the aswelded condition. (2) The Ney G-3 as-welded samples had no ductility, but heat treating greatly increased their yield stress. (3) The simulated ceramic firing cycle created a small amount of ductility in SMG-2, but the lowering of the yield stress in Ceramco-0 renders the welds dangerously weak even with improved ductility. (4) The Jelenko F as-welded specimens were acceptable. Heat treatment improved the joints slightly, but this is not considered necessary. (5) The Ney B-2 as-welded specimens produced satisfactory joints which did not benefit from heat treatment. The large loss in ductility with heat treatment is considered undesirable. (6) The unpredictable behavior of Ceramco-0 in this study suggests the need to evaluate each alloy individually before clinical application.
Inorganic pyrophosphatase activity has been partially characterized in joint fluid and determined in patients with sporadic and familial chondrocalcinosis and their controls. Optimal pH was established at 3.5 and Km values were estimated. Ca-2 and Mg-2 did not affect this activity whereas orthophosphate (Pi) strongly inhibited it. In the clinical study no significant differences were found among groups. This suggests that if a pyrophosphatase defect is present it might be localized in joint tissue and not be reflected in synovial fluid.
The molecular basis for the aberrant catecholamine responsiveness of the adenylate cyclase of adrenocortical carcinoma 494 was explored. The adenylate cyclase of this corticosteroid-producing, transplanted, adrenal cancer of the rat was stimulated not only by adrenocorticotropic hormone and fluoride, but also by the beta-adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol. The adenylate cyclase of normal adrenal tissue was unresponsive to isoproterenol. Direct binding studies with the specific high affinity B-adrenergic ligand, (-)[3H]dihydroalprenolol, demonstrated the pressure of 0.094 pmol of specific binding sites per milligram of tumor membrane protein. By contrast, normal adrenal membranes contained too few binding sites to accurately measure and study using these techniques. The tumor binding sites had high affinity for (-)[3H] dihydroalprenolol with an equilibrium dissociation constant of 2.1 nM. Adrenergic agonists competed for the binding sites in an order of potency, [(-) isoproterenol greater than (-) epinephrine (-) norepinephrine], paralleling their order of potency as beta-adrenergic agonists. The beta-adrenergic antagonist, (-) propranolol, competed for binding, causing half-mzximal inhibition of specific binding at a concentration of 6 nM. The alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine, and several catecholamine metabolites and precursors did not effectively compete for the binding sites at high concentrations. Binding was stereospecific, the (+) stereoisomers of beta-adrenergic agonists and antagonists requiring 40- to 300-fold higher concentrations than the corresponding (-) stereoisomers to half maximally inhibit (-) [3H] dihydroalprenolol binding. These results indicate that adrenocortical carcinoma 494 membranes contain beta-adrenergic receptor-binding sites which are not normally present in membranes of adrenal tissue. These ectopic beta-adrenergic receptors presumably confer on the neoplastic tissue the catecholamine sensitivity of its adenylate cyclase.
The narcotic cueing activity of sufentanil, fentanyl, morphine and met-enkephalin was studied upon their injection into the lateral brain ventricle of the rat. Comparative studies on the analgesic activity of the three narcotics support a close correlation between the narcotic cueing and the analgesic activity of narcotic drugs.
A review was made about human entomophthoromycosis observed in tropical areas due to fungi of the order Entomophthorales. Rhinophycomycosis is caused by Entomophthora coronata, a cosmopolitan fungus which is only pathogen in wet tropical and subtropical climates. The disease, a muco-cutaneous infection of the face, induces monstruous deformations. Basidiobolomycosis is caused by Basidiobolus meristosporus, a saprophyte of different amphibians and reptiles very often present in the family Agamidae. The disease interests the subcutaneous tissues and is mainly located at the trunk, shoulders and upper part of the limbs. The epidemiology, clinic and therapeutic were reported. Histopathological lesions and morphology of both fungi were studied. The etiology of the casual agents of these mycoses was discussed.
In a successful attempt to solve problems in Pediatric Nursing at the Medical University of South Carolina, a Department Chairman was named Director-Chairman of Pediatric Nursing and given operational authority over both clinical and academic nursing in Pediatrics. The results were more efficient administration, a higher quality of patient care and an enriched environment for student learning.
Free Galleria mellonella nuclear polyhedrosis virus was purified 4000--4500 times by Tween-80 treatment and repeated sucrose density gradient centrifugation, based on the ratio of infectivity to protein content as compared to the starting virus-containing suspension.
Sixty-two adults with a current diagnosis of significant hypertension and accompanying moderate to severe anxiety were medicated with lorazepam or with placebo for a period of 4 weeks. The patients were assessed by 7 cardiologists under double-blind conditions and the results pooled. Symptoms of anxiety were quantified using a Global Physician Rating, the Hamilton Anxiety Scale and a Patient Self-Rating Scale. The symptoms of anxiety associated with hypertension were significantly relieved by lorazepam in comparison to placebo. Most lorazepam patients were controlled with 3 mg/day; except for 1 patient, side effects were mild and transient.
Lorazepam is recognized as a tranquillizer. It is presented for intramuscular and intravenous injection. In a study of this drug's possible effects in premedication, its action was studied systematically when it was used for preoperative premedication. The drug has no side-effects other than drowsiness, which occurs in almost all cases. It produces very good premedication, sometimes with anterograde amnesia in the doses used. This anterograde amnesia is dependent on the dosage used but it is always accompanied by profound drowsiness, from which the patient can be roused verbally. The dose will be selected in relation to whether amnesia is desired or not. However, whatever the dose administered (over 2.5 mg), the tranquillizing effect is always of high quality.
Cellobiase has been isolated from the crude cellulase mixture of enzymes of Trichoderma viride using column chromatographic and ion-exchange methods. The steady-state kinetics of the hydrolysis of cellobiose have been investigated as a function of cellobiose and glucose concentrations, pH of the solution, temperature, and dielectric constant, using isopropanol-buffer mixtures. The results show that (i) there is a marked activation of the reaction by initial glucose concentrations of 4 X 10(-3) M to 9 X 10(-2) M and strong inhibition of the reaction at higher initial concentrations, (ii) the log rate -pH curve has a maximum at pH 5.2 and enzyme pK values of 3.5 and 6.8, (iii) the energy of activation at pH 5.1 is 10.2 kcal mol-1 over the temperature range 5-56 degrees C, and (iv) the rate decreases from 0 to 20% (v/v) isopropanol. The hydrolysis by cellobiase (EC 3.2.1.21) of p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucoside was examined by pre-steady-state methods in which [enzyme]0 greater than [substrate]0, and by steady-state methods as a function of pH and temperature. The results show (i) a value for k2 of 21 S-1 at pH 7.0 (where k2 is the rate constant for the second step in the assumed two-intermediate mechanism (formula: see text), (ii) a log rate -pH curve, significantly different from that for hydrolysis of cellobiose, in which the rate increases with decreasing pH below pH 4.5, is constant in the region pH 4.5-6, and decreases above pH 6 (exhibiting an enzyme pK value of 7.3), and (iii) an activation energy of 12.5 kcal mol-1 at pH 5.7 over the temperature range 10-60 degrees C.
Adult rats were studied at four, eight, and 12 months following vasectomy and sham-operation. The weights of the seminal vesicles, ventral prostate, pituitary, and kidneys were not significantly affected by vasectomy. Testicular endocrine function in vasectotomized rat was transiently stimulated as witnessed by elevation in testicular venous testosterone and androstenedione after four months. There then occurred signs of decline in gametogenic function and atrophy of the testis after 12 months whereas hormonogenesis appeared to remain at normal levels. There was no alteration in the morphology of the epididymis at any of the time intervals of study after vasectomy.
1. Thirty-five pigs were fitted with single re-entrant cannulas in either the duodenum, jejunum or ileum. A further twenty-four pigs were used in a conventional digestibility trial. 2. Methods for collecting, sampling and returning digesta were developed. 3. A 'practical-type' diet and two purfied diets were used, fed twice daily. 4. Flow and pH of digesta were measured hourly in the duodenum and jejunum, and every 6 h in the ileum. 5. In the duodenum and jejunum there were clear flow responses to feeding, while such an effect was not found in the ileum where the flow-rate was much lower and more uniform than in the former sites. 6. In the duodenum and jejunum, and within 6 h periods in the ileum, there was considerable variation in the flow-rate between different pigs within each hour but there was less variation in pH. 7. The pattern of flow in the duodenum and jejunum was similar for each of the diets but the total flow and the average pH in 24 h differed significantly between diets. There were more digesta of a lower pH from the 'practical-type' diet than the purified diets. 8. The pH in the duodenum was highest after feeding and decreased with increasing time after feeding. In the jejunum and ileum the pH-varied over a much smaller range than in the duodenum. 9. Collections for 6 h periods appeared to be insufficiently long to predict the values obtained in 24 h collections with reasonable accuracy.
High-risk groups for gastrointestinal carcinoma are heterogenic in regard to etiopathology; familial predisposition and genetic defects (familial adenomatosis coli, tylosis palmaris et plantaris, Gardner syndrome, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome), occupational factors (asbestor exposure), surgical intervention (resected stomach, ureterosigmoidostomy), long lasting passage obstruction (oesophagus) or chronic inflammatory alteration of the mucosa (pernicious anemia, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, glutenenteropathy). Although high-risk groups account only for about 5 per cent of all carcinomas, consequent follow-up examinations of these small collectives offer early diagnosis of carcinoma at a curable stage.
The mechanism by which iron uptake is facilitated by the siderophore rhodotorulic acid (RA) in the yeast Rhodotorula pilimanae was investigated with radioactively labeled Fe and RA and kinetically inert, chromic-substituted RA complexes. The weight of the evidence supports a model in which RA mediates iron transport to the cell but does not actually transport iron into the cell. It is proposed that RA exchanges the ferric ion at the cell surface with a membrane-bound chelating agent that completes the active transport of iron into the cell. Uptake of 55Fe in ferric rhodotorulate was much more rapid than uptake of RA itself. Two exchange-inert chromic complexes of RA showed no uptake.
The synthesis and characterization of water-soluble random copolymers containing L-lysine with N5-(4-hydroxybutyl)-L-glutamine, and the thermally induced helix-coil transitions of these copolymers in water, are described. The incorporation of L-lysine was found to decrease the helix content of the polymers at neutral pH. The Zimm-Bragg parameters sigma and s for the helix-coil transition in poly(L-lysine) in water were deduced from an analysis of the melting curves in the manner described in earlier papers. The computed values of s indicate that, in the temperature range of 0-60 degrees C, lysine has a tendency to destabilize helical sequences, this tendency being minimal at approximately 25 degrees C and increasing at lower and higher temperatures.
Both rabbit liver microsomes and reconstituted system with purified cytochrome P-450 and cofactors enzymatically oxidized o-dithiane (1, 2-dithiane), 3-methyl-o-dithiane, thiane and 2-methylthiane to the corresponding mono-oxygenated products; sulfides or disulfides were oxidized to the corresponding sulfoxides or thiosulfinates, while thiosulfinate was oxidized to thiolsulfonate. The reconstituted systems required oxygen and NADPH and were not affected by the catalase which decomposes H2O2, or by 1,4-diazabicyclo-[2,2,2]octane (DABCO), which is a good quencher of singlet oxygen. The differences in the binding of substrates such as sulfides and disulfides with the enzyme system are discussed in connection with differences in the spectra of the substrates in the reconstituted system with pure cytochrome P-450. A correlation was found between the rates of oxidation of the substrates and the rates of oxidation of NADPH.
Formate dehydrogenase activity (EC 1.2.1.2) has been demonstrated in cell-free preparations of Mycobacterium phlei by following the reduction of 2,6 dichlorophenolindophenol. thiazolyl blue tetrazolium, or equine cytochrome c. The reduction of equine cytochrome c was inhibited by 2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline-N-oxide. Neither nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide nor nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate were reduced by this formate dehydrogenase. The enzyme was constitutive and associated with the particular fraction. The greatest level of activity was observed at pH 9.0, with 8 mM formate, and with extracts of cells taken from the log phase of growth. Formaldehyde, hypophosphite, nitrate, and bicarbonate all inhibited the oxidation of formate.
Ascorbic acid concentration was measured in centrifuged and uncentrifuged saliva from normal young adult men and women. The salivary ascorbic acid content of uncentrifuged saliva was significantly higher in women on account of the ascorbic acid contained in the cellular sediment. Ascorbic acid absorption into the buccal mucosa was measured from solutions of pH range 3.4-9.0 held in the mouth for periods of 1-9 minutes. For a constant mouth contact time, increase in pH of the loading solutions resulted in reduction of buccal absorption, and diminishing transfer into the buccal epithelium. Percentage absorption was greater in males than females throughout the pH range. At pH 5, 80% of the loading solution was absorbed after 5 minutes. Diffusion of ascorbic acid through the lipoid membrane was more rapid in males. Female buccal cells had significantly higher ascorbic acid concentrations than male cells. Absorption of laevo and dextro ascorbic acid in human beings can be considered as partitioning into, or passage through, a lipoid phase into the buccal cells. The rate of passage of ascorbic acid into the buccal lining cells under controlled conditions of pH and buccal contact time is pH and concentration dependent in human beings.
1. alpha 1-Proteinase inhibitor was isolated from human plasma by a five-step procedure. Isoelectric focusing showed that six components focused between pH4.85 and 4.95. 2. The mol.wt. of the inhibitor was 52000 by sedimentation equilibrium and sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The amino acid and carbohydrate compositions of the inhibitor were also determined. 3. The far-u.v.c.d. (circular-dichroism) spectrum indicated that the inhibitor had about 36% alpha-helical content. 4. The loss of proteinase-inhibitory activity when the inhibitor was exposed to pH values less than 5.0 or greater than 10.5 was accompanied by small changes in the far-u.v.c.d. spectrum and large changes in the near-u.v.c.d. spectrum. The change at alkaline pH was associated with ionization of tyrosine residues. 5. Interaction of inhibitor with chymotrypsin caused perturbation of the c.d. spectrum and this was used to follow the interaction and show a 1:1 stoicheiometry. 6. C.d., electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing showed that the inhibitor-enzyme complex is degraded by free enzyme. 7. Parallel studies with trypsin indicated that it too forms a 1:1 complex with inhibitor and is degraded by excess of enzyme.
The effects of antibodies against microsomal electron-transport components on the in vitro activity of delta6-desaturation of linoleic acid to gamma-linolenic acid have been studied in intact microsomal membranes of rat liver. Reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) (0.87 mM) served as electron donors, and effectively prompted the delta6-desaturase activities with yields of about 1.1 to 1.3 nmol per mg of protein in 10 min. Of the two antibodies studied under the same in vitro conditions, i.e., rabbit antisera preparations against rat liver microsomal hydrophilic parts of cytochrome b5 and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, only the antibody against cytochrome b5 demonstrated a marked ability to inhibit the delta6-desaturase activity. This evidence supports a participation of cytochrome b5 in the delta6-desaturation of linoleic acid and suggests a pathway analogous to the delta9-desaturation of stearyl-CoA.
Histologic changes caused by malposition occur in the undescended testicle after the second year of life. Histologic changes like those seen in the human are found in experimental cryptorchism in dogs. The same pathologic changes also occur in the unilaterally descended testicle. The results of preliminary experiments in dogs allow the statement that in unilateral cryptorchism the damage to the contralateral, descended, testicle is produced by an autoimmunologic mechanism.
Tolerogenic doses of hapten [2,4-dinitrophenyl (DNP)]-coupled type 3 pneumococcal polysaccharide (DNP-lys2.5-S3) totally abolished the anti-DNP rosette-forming cell (RFC) response to primary immunization with DNP-hemocyanin in mice, while lightly substituted antigen (DNP-lys0.6-S3) had little effect. Both antigens suppressed secondary anti-DNP RFC responses to DNP-KLH. Limiting doses of DNP-lys-S3 preferentially suppressed antibody-secreting cell levels, and had less effect on RFC. DNP-lys2.5-S3 was 500--1000-fold more potent in "blockading" primary RFC in vitro than DNP-lys0.6-S3, whereas both antigens were equally effective in blocking secondary RFC. These results suggest that the sensitivity of primed B lymphocytes to inactivation by DNP-lys-S3 is related to their high avidity for antigen. Furthermore, this appears to be largely due to a high density of immunoglobulin receptors on primed cells since the affinities of primary and secondary RFC for monovalent hapten were indistinguishable. Treatment of primarily immunized mice with DNP-lys2.5-S3 2 h before assay abolished 90% of RFC. Therefore, the reduction in RFC levels in tolerant mice may be due to cellular blockade by persisting tolerogen. However, it seems unlikely that simple blockade of antigen-reactive cells is the sole mechanism operative in this system.
The rate of the primary acid modification reaction of 1,4-dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) and 1,4-dihydro-3-acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide (APADH) and their analogues has been studied over a wide pH range (pH 1-7) with a variety of general acid catalysts. The rate depends on [H+] at moderate pH and becomes independent of [H+] at low pH. This behavior is attributed to substrate protonation at the carbonyl group (pK of NADH = 0.6). The reaction is general acid catalyzed; large solvent deuterium isotope effects are observed for the general acid and lyonium ion terms. Most buffers cause a linear rate increase with increasing buffer concentration, but certain buffers cause a hyperbolic rate increase. The nonlinear buffer effects are due to complexation of the buffer with the substrate, rather than to a change in rate-limiting step. The rate-limiting step is a proton transfer from the general acid species to the C5 position of the substrate. Anomerization is not a necessary first step in the case of the primary acid modification reaction of beta-NADH, in which beta to alpha anomerization takes place.
The mode of generation of free radicals of daunomycin, adriamycin, and carboquone in the NADPH-rat liver microsome system was studied at room temperature by electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy. ESR signals of all these quinoid anticancer chemicals were detected when dissolved oxygen in the reaction mixture was consumed since the radicals are easilyaut oxidizable. All the radicals had an appreciable lifetime under anaerobic conditions. However, there were differences in the mode of their generation between daunomycin and adriamycin, on the one hand, and carboquone, on the other, with respect to the lag time and the effect of the amount of chemicals, pH of the medium, kind of electron donors, NADPH and NADH, and the presence of excess of DNA. Especially, ESR signal reappeared after the first signal had decreased considerably, in the case of daunomycin and adriamycin but not in carboquone. Intact Ehrlich ascites tumor cells also gave rise to an ESR signal of adriamycin and carboquone, but the former signal was prevented from appearing in the presence of glucose.
A retrospective review of 20 cases of testicular neoplasia in cryptorchid patients is presented. These cases serve to emphasize the need for more effective diagnosis and management of the undescended testis. The various clinical presentations, diagnostic modalities, prognostic indicators, and types of management are reviewed. Due to its inaccessibility and array of clinical presentations, the intraabdominal testies tumor continues to be a diagnostic challenge. Strict attention to diagnostic cues and adherence to the management practices presented here would hopefully result in an overall decrease in testis tumors in the post-pubertal male.
Animals compromised by irradiation or graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR) are highly sensitive to endotoxin (ET). In order to determine the causes of the increased sensitivity of compromised mice, we studied alterations of hepatic (central) and bloodborne (peripheral) ET clearance processes. We observed that increased sensitivity to ET, as determined by mortality, occurred shortly after irradiation and correlated with granulocytopenia nd thrombocytopenia rather than with impairment of liver function. The involvement of granulocytes in ET clearance was indicated by injection of 51Cr-ET suspended in whole blood. By comparison with clearance of ET injected with saline or plasma, greater amounts of 51Cr-ET were sequestered in peripheral organs than in the liver. Similar results were obtained when Cr-ET in whole blood was perfused through a rat liver. ET clearance was enhanced 50% over that seen in M-199, plasma, or platelet-rich plasma. It was also found that intestinal ET contributes to mortality of granulocytopenic-thrombocytopenic mice. This was supported by the observation that bacteriologically decontaminated, irradiated animals were eight times more resistant to challenge with ET than were conventional animals. Thus, an important aspect of increased sensitivity to ET, in comprised mice, is defective peripheral clearance.
A method for the analysis of organic acids and phenols isolated from marijuana smoke condensate has been developed. Comparative analyses of standard tobacoo, Mexican, and Turkish marijuana smoke condensates carried out by means of capillary gas chromatography indicated both qualitative and quantitative changes in the constituents of chromatographic profiles. Samples were converted to volatile derivatives by methylation and trimethylsilylation; whereupon, 49 aliphatic acids, aromatic acids, and phenolic compounds were identified by means of capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Hepatic tyrosine aminotransferase (L-tyrosine: 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase, EC 2.6.1.5) was partially purified from pyridoxine depleted and control rats and subsequently resolved by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels. Enzyme activity was detected histochemically in situ on the gel. Six enzymatically active forms were detected. Cofactor depletion effected further resolution of the enzyme into seven active forms as revealed by the bifurcation of the major active peak.
Published work showed that third-stage larvae (L-3s) escape into water from dead or dying, Brugia pahangi-infected, Aedes aegypti. The present study revealed the same escape phenomenon among B. pahangi-infected Armigeres subalbatus, Anopheles quadrimaculatus, and Aedes togoi, and among Brugia malayi-infected Ae. aegypti and Ae. togoi. L-3s maintained in water or in Lum's solution for 3 hours retained infectivity when tested in orally or subcutaneously exposed jirds; furthermore, L-3s recovered from mosquitoes dead for 24 to 48 hours were also infective by either portal of entry in jirds. Since L-3s may escape and remain infective in the field, it is conceivable that natural filarial infections might thus be acquired orally by definitive hosts.
A possible source of discrepancy between kinetic and spectroscopic studies of the active site ionizations in the enzyme trypsin (EC 3.4.21.4) could arise if a slow pH-dependent conformational change affected the rates at low pH. No such effect is observed within the time range of 1 min- 3 h when pre-incubation of trypsin at pH 2.0 or at pH 6.9 precedes the enzymatic hydrolysis of Nalpha-carbobenzoxy-L-lysine-p-nitrophenyl ester. The deacylation rate of this hydrolysis depends on a single pKa on the enzyme between pH 3 and pH 7.
Potassium sorbate, sodium benzoate, sulfur dioxide, and diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC) were tested for their effectiveness in preventing the outgrowth of Byssochlamys nivea Westling ascospores. Sulfur dioxide was the most inhibitory of the test antimycotics, complete inhibition of colony formation occuring in acidified (pH 3.5) potato dextrose agar containing 50 ppm of the preservative. Complete inhibition of B. nivea ascospore outgrowth in grape juice stored for 60 days was noted in the presence of 300 ppm sulfur dioxide, 400 ppm potassium sorbate, and 600 ppm DEPC. Growth was observed in grape juice containing 1000 ppm sodium benzoate. The presence of up to 100 ppm potassium sorbate in grape juice during heat activation appears to have a stimulatory effect on breaking dormancy, while the other test preservatives at this concentration decrease the heat resistance of B. nivea ascospores. The time elapsed between heat shock and exposure to DEPC or sodium benzoate is critical with respect to the sensitivity of ascospores to these preservatives.
Each mole of oxyhemoglobin iron converted to methemoglobin causes the oxidation of 1.5 mol of nitrite to nitrate and consumes 1 mol of protons. No oxygen is liberated. The overall reaction has two simultaneously occurring parts. In the beginning the rate-limiting reaction converting O2Hb to metHb is directly proportional to H+ and NO2- concentrations and is independent of metHb. The second portion accounts in major part for the stoichiometry and rate of the overall reaction. In this portion O2Hb tetramers and metHbNO2- are the reactants. Essentially no reaction takes place in the presence of CN-, which displaces nitrite from the metHbNO2-, nor in the presence of 0.5 mol/liter Nal, which converts the O2Hb to alphabeta-dimers. The autocatalytic nature of the overall reaction in the presence of excess nitrite is the result of metHb, which is formed in both parts of the reaction, associating with nitrite to increase the concentration of one reactant of the cyanide-sensitive part. The reaction rates at constant pH in excess nitrite are porportional to the product of the O2Hb concentration and the square of the metHb concentration. The rate increases up to about 66% conversion of O2Hb followed by a decrease as the O2Hb becomes limiting. The dissociation constant of metHbNO2- at 25 degrees C and pH = 6.4 was found to be 1.11+/-0.11 mmol/liter.
Palmitoyl cellulose was used to adsorb the extracellular lipase [triacylglycerol acyl-hydrolase EC 3.1.1.3] of Chromobacterium viscosum from crude enzyme solution, and the adsorbed enzyme was eluted with a suitable detergent, such as Adekatol 45-S-8 or Triton X-100. The enzyme was then purified by chromatography on a palmitoylated gauze column with an overall recovery of 71% and an increase in the specific activity of 11-fold from the supernatant fluid of bacterial cultures. Further purification procedures included fractionation with acetone, and chromatography on Sephadex G-150 and G-75 columns. Two isoenzymes were obtained, each in a homogeneous state on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis: one had a molecular weight of 120,000 and pI of 3.7 and the other a molecular weight of 30,000 with a pI of 7.3.
The effect of the beta-lactam antibiotics penicillin G and mecillinam on the incorporation of peptidoglycan into pre-formed cell wall peptidoglycan was studied with wall membrane enzyme preparations from Gaffkya homari. Using UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) and UDP-N-acetylmuramyl-pentapeptide (UDP-MurNAc-pentapeptide) as precursors the incorporation of peptidoglycan into the pre-existing cell wall of G. homari was inhibited to an extent of 50% (ID50 value) at a concentration of 0.25 mug of penicillin G/ml. With UDP-GlcNAc and UDP-MurNAc-tetrapeptide as precursors the ID50 value was about 2500-fold greater (630 mug/ml). The inhibition by penicillin G of the incorporation of peptidoglycan from UDP-MurNAc-[14C]Lys-pentapeptide could be overcome by addition of non-radioactive UDP-MurNAc-tetrapeptide to the incubation mixture. In the presence of 5 mug of penicillin G/ml the incorporation of peptidoglycan formed from the mixture of UDP-MurNAc-Ala-DGlu-Lys-D-[14C]Ala-D[14C]Ala and non-radioactive UDP-MurNAc-tetrapeptide proceeded virtually without release of D-[14C]alanine by transpeptidase activity. The enzyme preparation also exhibited DD-carboxypeptidase activity which was only slightly more sensitive to penicillin G and mecillinam than was the incorporation of peptidoglycan into the cell wall. Since the ID50 values for the beta-lactam antibiotics are similar to the concentrations required to inhibit the growth of G. homari to an extent of 50%, the DD-carboxypeptidase must be the killing site of both penicillin G and mecillinam.
Piliated gonococci were competent in genetic transformation in all stages of growth in minimal and enriched media, but nonpiliated cells were almost totally incompetent. Uptake of deoxyribonucleic acid into a deoxyribonuclease-insensitive state was observed only in competent piliated cells. Competence was not affected by washing of competent cells or treatment of competent cells with proteolytic enzymes. Expression of competence required presence of any of several different monovalent or divalent cations, as well as a utilizable source of energy. Efforts to produce genotypically or phenotypically competent derivatives of nonpiliated cells were unsuccessful. These experiments are consistent with the idea that pili may play a role in the irreversible uptake of transforming deoxyribonucleic acid by the gonococcus, but fail to provide evidence for other types of competence factors.
A strain of Spirillum lipoferum with intense red pigmentation was isolated from the roots of Cynodon dactylon "Coastal." This isolate vigorously reduced acetylene when grown in N-free, Na-malate, semisolid agar, and it was identical to S. lipoferum strain SP7 by standard taxonomic tests. Both S. lipoferum SP7 and the C. dactylon root isolate displayed the unique features of being denitrifiers as well as N2 fixers. The N2-dependent growth curve was biphasic: cells in younger cultures showed the characteristic spiral shape and motility, but those in older cultures developed larger, nonmotile, cystlike forms. Nitrogenase activity seemed associated only with younger spiral forms. The red pigment may be a b- or c-type cytochrome. The strong red color, which this strain develops, could be used as a marker in evaluating soil inoculation experiments.
Thiobacillus ferrooxidans is an acidophilic organism important to metal leaching of low-grade ores. The aforementioned importance is related to the ability of the bacterium to oxidize reduced iron and sulfur, principally found in nature as pyrite (FeS2). The present study dealt with sulfide oxidation at low pH values and the involvement of the cell envelope in the process of the inorganic oxidations. Sulfide oxidation was noted in spheroplasts of T. ferrooxidans prepared by enzymatic and chemical treatments and partially purified by differential centrifugation. No enzyme activities were noted in membrane fractions containing enrichments of lipopolysaccharide symbolic of outer membrane material or in membrane vesicles containing (or associated with) higher levels of proteins. Results to date indicate that in an acid milieu the envelope structure containing both the outer membrane and the intact inner cytoplasmic membrane is required for sulfide oxidation.
Two radiochemical esterolytic assays for urokinase are described. One assay is based on the urokinase-dependent hydrolysis of Nalpha-acetyl-glycyl-L-lysine [3H]methyl ester and the other on the urokinase-dependent activation of plasminogen and assay of generated plasmin with Nalpha-tosyl-L-arginine [3H]methyl ester. The assays are performed in tubes placed in liquid scintillation counting vials. At the end of the experiment generated [3H]methanol is extracted into the liquid scintillation cocktail and counted. Unhydrolyzed substrate largely remains in the aqueous phase and contributes only a small fraction of the counts. This facile separation of 3H-labeled alcohol from the ester substrate allows the simple and highly sensitive assay for urokinase. The assays give results in good agreement with the classical fibrin plate assay.
During general anesthesia for bronchoscopy, hypoxemia is a major risk, especially in patients with a severe intrapulmonary shunt. With the technique of apnea in pure oxygen, after one hour denitrogentation, and with an intake of 50 liters of oxygen per minute through the bronchoscope, the PaO2 was greater than 400 mm of Hg, but hypercapnia and acidosis occurred. To compensate the latter, five minute sessions of apnea, alternating with two minutes of jet hyperventilation, nevertheless, have the disadvantage of producing a Ventrui phenomena at the proximal end of the bronchoscope, hence a fall in FiO2 which was dangerous in these high risk patients. The authors propose a method so that the Venturi phenomenon, which cannot be prevented, occurs in pure oxygen.
Fatty acid synthesis by subcellular fractions of human aorta was studied by measuring the incorporation of either radioactive acetyl-CoA or malonyl-CoA into long chain fatty acids. The high speed supernatant fraction contained fatty acid synthetase and was capable of de novo fatty acid synthesis. The fatty acid synthetase from chicken aorta was purified 800-fold from the high speed supernatant and was judged to be 10% pure at this level. Its molecular weight was estimated to be 450,000 on the basis of agarose gel filtration chromatography, while under dissociating conditions a molecular weight of 220,000 was obtained on sodium dodecyl sulphate disc gel electrophoresis. Fatty acid synthesis was dependent on acetyl-CoA, malonyl-CoA and NADPH. The major product was free palmitic acid. In enzymatic and physical characteristics the chicken aorta fatty acid synthetase strongly resembles the synthetase isolated from chicken liver. The two enzymes cross-react immuno-chemically and this homology provides the possibility of studying the synthesis and degradation of the aorta synthetase during the development of atherosclerosis.
In 10 normal subjects, in 32 patients with duodenal ulcer (DU), and in 11 patients with partial gastrectomy (Billroth I), serum gastrin rose significantly after an oral and intraduodenal test meal. The highest increases were observed in DU patients after the oral as well as after the intraduodenal test meal. After the intraduodenal test meal in 4 normal subjects and in 17 DU patients an increase of gastric acid secretion and serum gastrin was measured. In basal state, after an intraduodenal or an oral test meal, DU patients with normal gastric acid secretory capacity had higher serum gastrin concentrations than DU patients with gastric hypersecretion. There was a good correlation between peak serum gastrin levels after the oral and after the intraduodenal test meal. From these data it is concluded: (1) Intraduodenal application of a test meal results in release of gastrin from extragastric sites. (2) Extragastric gastrin is biologically active. (3) DU patients are able to release more antral and more extragastric gastrin in response to a test meal. Further studies, however, are necessary to show the significance of these findings in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease.
We have recently demonstrated that prenatal administration of morphine to the rat results in tolerance to the analgesic effects of morphine in the offspring at 3 to 11 weeks of age. To extend these findings, levorphanol or dextrorphan was administered to female CFE rats during days 5 to 12 of gestation. Control animals were injected with 0.9% saline on the same schedule. At 5 weeks of age all offspring were tested with graded doses of morphine in the hot-plate test for analgesia. Morphine produced a dose-related increase in analgesia in all offspring, but the effect of morphine in the offspring of levorphanol-treated females was significantly reduced compared to the offspring of saline-treated females; the analgesic effect of morphine did not differ between the offspring of the dextrorphan- and saline-treated females. The analgesic effect of morphine remained reduced in 9-week old offspring of levorphanol-treated females compared to the corresponding offspring of females that had received saline. Diminished analgesic activity of morphine in the offspring of levorphanol-treated females compared to the offspring of females that had received dextrorphan or saline was still observed even when the offspring were rendered tolerant to morphine by daily drug injections over a period of 5 days. Thus, the protracted tolerance to the analgesic effects of morphine can also be produced by a morphine congener (levorphanol), but not by its analgesically inactive (+) isomer (dextrorphan).
Apomyoglobin was prepared by an extremely mild modification of the acid/butanone technique, and the kinetics of the recombination reaction between this preparation and alkaline haematin were studied. The recombination has been shown to be precisely second-order and mono-phasic. Rate constants obtained from the study are in good agreement with values obtained previously by an indirect technique not involving separation of haem and apoprotein.
A new plating medium using bromothymol blue (BTB) indicator is described and compared with eosin-methylene blue (EMB), MacConkey, and Endo media. These media were tested with L-arabinose by plating fermenting and nonfermenting mutant strains of Escherichia coli. The minimum concentrations of L-arabinose that permitted differentiation of these strains were determined. Different concentrations were required for differentiating confluent patches of cells, isolated colonies, and closely spaced or adjacent colonies. L-Arabinose, L-rhamnose, D-lactose, and D-galactose were tested with modified enteric media and with BTB medium, again to determine minimum usable concentrations. BTB media and reformulated conventional media allowed detection of acidification, aerobically, at one-fifth to one-hundredth the (1%, wt/vol) concentration of carbohydrate used in standard indicator plates.
The cardiovascular (blood pressure, heart rate, central venous pressure) and ECG changes caused by dibenzepine-infusion (720 mg/day for 48 hours) have been assessed. Mean blood pressure and heart rate did not show significant changes. In some patients, however, distinct changes in both variables were observed. Central venous pressure was not affected. The infusion elicited changes in the repolarisation phase of the ECG: it did not, however, alter either the automaticity or the conductivity of the heart. These results were obtained in 40 depressive patients, whose general conditions and cardiovascular state were excellent and must not be extrapolated for cardiopathic patients. The risks inherent in this therapeutic approach are discussed.
Essential hypertension (EH) can be subdivided according to the sympathetic and renin activity into two contrasting forms: (1) borderline beta-hyperadrenergic renin hyperresponsive and (2) stable beta-hypoadrenergic renin hyporesponsive EH. These two forms probably represent two expreme poles in the spectrum of EH in which sympathetic and renin hyper- or hyporeactivity cannot be accounted for by catecholamine determinations solely. beta-Adrenergic responsiveness monitored by plasma cyclic AMP determinations revealed plasma cyclic AMP, renin and circulatory hyperresponsiveness to isoproterenol in borderline hyperadrenergic EH while the opposite, cyclic AMP and renin hyporesponsiveness to insulin-induced hypoglycemia have been described in low renin stable EH. The kidney is in the center of the adrenergic abnormality in the two forms of EH with the borderline one excreting into the urine catecholamines not accounted for by their glomerular filtration. Catecholamines solely, however, do not account for the differences in both forms of EH which can probably be attributed to their different beta-adrenergic responsiveness.
Thirty-eight patients who had sustained acute trauma, profound hemorrhagic shock, and massive transfusion were studied prospectively to determine the predominant etiologic factors in the development of post-traumatic jaundice. An analysis of clinical and biochemical factors occurring in association with each bilirubin peak in the postoperative course found the jaundice related to transfusion and surgery in 11 instances, to sepsis and septicemia in 15 instances, and to hepatic dysfunction in 23 instances. Results indicated that admission estimates of SGOT and LDH levels, the height of the bilirubin peak and the postoperative day on which it occurs, and the white cell count and GGT at the time of the peak may be of use in the differential diagnosis. Four case reports were used to emphasize the fluctuating pattern of jaundice and the different etiologic factors that may predominate. Light and electron microscopy from three patients illustrated the structural alterations that accompany the biochemical impairment of liver function and enable a more precise appreciation of this syndrome. Hepatic dysfunction appears to be implicated in a high proportion of patients who develop post-traumatic jaundice, which frequently occurs as part of a spectrum of multiple organ failure.
Alveolar macrophages, collected by bronchopulmonary lavage and deposited on a membrane filter applied to the surface of a reservoir filled with nutrient medium, were maintained alive in direct contact with the atmosphere. Studies of morphology (using both optic and electron microscopy), of bactericidal activity and of ATP content confirmed the viability and vitality of the cell culture. This new experimental technique permits the in vitro reconstitution of the alveolar and bronchial microenvironment and offers a new method for the study of the cytotoxicity of toxic gases.
Molecular weights of all hemocyanin aggregates which can be homogeneously isolated have been measured by sedimentation equilibrium. The larger aggregates, which are the ones present under physiological conditions, are, to a very close approximation, integral multiples of a 4.4 x 10(6)-dalton, 60 S species. Dissociation of the 60 S species at high pH gives heterogeneous samples in which the smallest species has a molecular weight of 300,000. The smallest subunit which can be produced in denaturing solvents also has a molecular weight of 300,000.
From the variations of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases activities with the pH, evidence was obtained for the recognition of A1A2 heterozygotes in normal A blood group sera. Besides, unusual transferase properties associated with two A2 sera from individuals out of AAm1 siblings, lead to the identification of the very infrequent A2AAm1 genotypes. These results strongly support the simultaneous coexistence of both A1 and A2 transferases in heterozygotes' sera, and bring some new information on the genetical background of the Am phenotype. The meaning of transferase properties directly determined on whole sera is briefly discussed.
Tests set up in vivo on rats and with an isolated spontaneously contracting atrium of the cat brought evidence that nospanum produces an adverse chronotropic action, caused by a direct effect on the cardiac pacemaker. In the rat's myocardium the drug raised the pyruvate level, increased the lactate-dehydrogenase activity and depressed that of glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase. As established by differential spectrophotometry the reduced forms of pyridine-nucleotides (NAD'N, NADP'N) tend to change the nospanum spectrum. An addition of potassium chloride to an isolated atrium at the peak of the adverse chronotropic action of nospanum or an introduction of nospanum together with NAD'N abolished the cardiotropic effect of the drug. The mechanism of the cardiotoxic action of nospanum is discussed.
Lipolysis in human adipose tissue was measured as glycerol release in isolated fat cells and in adipose tissue homogenates. In isolated fat cells lipolysis proceeded optimally at pH 7.4, was stimulated 3.5 fold by noradrenaline and was not influenced by serum or protamine. In adipose tissue homogenates lipolysis was stimulated 4 fold by serum. Serum-stimulated lipolytic activity was optimal at pH 8.0, was inhibited by 1 M sodium chloride and protamine and was not influenced by noradrenaline. Lipolytic activity in isolated fat cells is ascribed on the basis of these observations mainly to the action of hormone-sensitive lipase. whereas lipolysis in adipose tissue homogenates in the presence of serum seems to be regulated by lipoprotein lipase. Thus, the lipolytic processes involved in the mobilization of triglycerides from adipose tissue and in the uptake or triglycerides into adipose tissue can be assessed separately, using the two described methods. The re-esterification of FFA, the second pathway in the mobilization of triglycerides, has also been investigated.
Binding of 125I-human choriogonadotropin (hCG) to homogenates of corpora lutea of the menstrual cycle and pregnancy was examined. While corpora lutea of the menstrual cycle bound 125I-hCG, most of the corpora lutea of pregnancy from six to 34 weeks' gestation bound little or none of the added 125 I-hCG. Further exploration into various possibilities for the above findings led to the conclusion that these corpora lutea either contain very few gonadotropin receptors or lack them altogether. The selected properties of gonadotropin receptors in corpora lutea of the cycle were studied. The apparent dissociation constant for binding was about the same (2.6 to 3.8 x 10-10M) in all but one corpus luteum. In this one sample the constant was three- to five-fold higher (1.3 x 10-9M). The binding was quite rapid and reversible, and it exhibited dependence on the amount of 125I-hCG, homogenate protein, pH of the incubation media, and duration of incubation. hCG and human lutropin (hLH') competed for 125I-hCG binding, but hCG subunits (alpha and beta), human follitropin, and ovine prolactin did not. Although hCG and hLH were parallel in inhibiting 125I-hCG binding, hLH was found to be relatively less effective. The studies with various enzymes revealed that gonadotropin receptors are protein in nature.
The indices of acid-alkaline blood balance was studied in the dynamics of dosed hungering in 29 patients with sluggish schizophrenia and 16 patients with residual signs oforganic lesions of the CNS. There were differences in the pH index, standard and buffer bicarbonates alkaline deficiency which indicated to different degrees of acidosis in this group of patients. Significant differences in the acid-alkaline indices during hunger were seen in the different groups of patients depending upon the existence or absence of hypothalamic disorders (without consideration of their nosological affinity). The existence of hypothalamic disorders requires a more careful consideration when prescribing hunger therapy (the first session should not exceed 10-14 days).
Ca2& taken up by sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane fragments (SRF) upon using ATP could be released rapidly by changing the anion outside the vesicles from methanesulfonate to chloride. It is considered that this anion exchange caused depolarization of the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane. Similar rapid release of Ca2& taken up by SRF was also caused by a change from high to low osmotic pressure, probably due to bursting of the membrane. On the basis of experiments in which these two types of Ca2& release were discriminated, it was concluded that Ca2& bound inside the membrane was released directly by anion exchange (depolarization). However, Ca2& release was not caused by cation exchange. Sucrose inhibited these two types of Ca2& release. Cia2& taken up in the presence of oxalate could not be released by any treatment used. Liver microsome fraction also has Ca2& uptake activity. However, Ca2& was not released upon anion exchange, but was released upon oxmotic change. These results show that Ca2& release from SRF upon anion exchange is specific to the sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane. In conclusion, SRF membrane retains the ability to respond to the depolarization caused by ion exchange and can release the accumulated Ca2&.
The synthesis of two high-affinity fluorescent beta-adrenergic blockers is described: dl-N(1)-[2-hydroxy-3-(1-naphthyloxy)propyl]-N(2)-(9-acridyl)-1,2-propanediamine (9-aminoacridylpropanolol, 9-AAP) and dl-N-[2-hydroxy-3-(1-naphthyloxy)propyl]-N'-dansylethylenediamine (dansyl analogue of propranolol, DAPN). Both 9-AAP and DAPN inhibit competitively the l-epinephrine-dependent adenylate cyclase activity [ATP pyrophosphate-lyase (cyclizing), EC 4.6.1.1] in turkey erythrocyte membranes without affecting the fluoride-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. Similarly, 9-AAP and DAPN inhibit in a competitive manner the binding of [(125)I]-iodohydroxybenzylpindolol to these beta-adrenergic receptors. The two fluorescent beta-adrenergic blockers 9-AAP and DAPN probe specifically beta-adrenergic receptors in the central nervous system as well as in other organs when injected into rats. The fluorescence pattern can be monitored by fluorescence microscopy performed on cryostat slices of these organs. The appearance of the characteristic fluorescence pattern can be blocked in a stereospecific fashion by a prior injection of l-propranolol and not by a prior injection of d-propranolol. These compounds therefore offer a powerful means to map beta-adrenergic receptors in vivo. The stereospecific displacement of 9-AAP from the beta-adrenergic receptors of turkey erythrocyte membranes by l-propranolol and by l-epinephrine can be detected in vitro using front-face fluorescence. The potential use of these compounds to probe beta-receptors in vitro and in vivo is discussed.
Normal human plasma contains an active form of renin that is activated by acidification to pH 3.0 and comprises 56% of the total renin. In our study, inactive renin was also present in plasma from five anephric persons, and the proportion of active to inactive renin in these subjects was similar to normal. Plasma from normal pregnant women contained increased concentrations of inactive renin and the proportion of inactive renin was raised to around 66%. Plasma from persons with renal hypertension contained varying amounts of inactive renin but the mean percentage (35%) was lower than normal. An infusion of saralasin sufficient to lower the blood pressure in five subjects with renal hypertension resulted in a rise in active renin concentration but no change in the concentration of inactive renin. Plasma angiotensin II correlated with active renin but not with inactive renin, suggesting that the inactive renin does not produce angiotensin II in vivo.
After the clinical studies with pronethalol and propranolol confirmed Black's hypothesis that drugs which block beta-adrenoceptors were of value in the treatment of patients with angina pectoris and cardiac arrhythmias, other compounds have been described which block beta-adrenoceptors. Detailed pharmacological studies with propranolol and comparison of its properties with those of other beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs have indicated that these drugs may possess properties in addition to their effect in blocking beta-adrenoceptors. These properties have been termed intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, membrane stabilizing activity and cardioselectivity. These properties have all been described in detailed observations in laboratory animals but not to the same extent in normal man or in patients. It appears that the therapeutic effectiveness of these drugs results from their beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity and that intrinsic sympathomimetic activity and membrane stabilizing activity do not contribute to the effects of these drugs in patients, although cardioselectivity may be of value in some patients.
Zoogloea ramigera I-16 M was found to contain two stereospecific acetoacetyl CoA reductases; one was NADP+-linked and D(-)-beta-hydroxybutyryl CoA specific and the other was NAD+-linked and L(+)-isomer specific. The NADP+-linked enzyme, purified approximately 150-fold, had a pH optimum for the reduction of acetoacetyl CoA at 8.1, but no definite pH optimum for the oxidation for beta-hydroxybutyryl CoA. The apparent Michaelis constants for acetoacetyl CoA and NADPH were 8.3 and 21 micrometer, respectively. The enzyme was markedly inhibited by acetoacetyl CoA at concentrations higher than 10 micrometer. The incorporation of [1-14C]acetyl CoA into poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) by bacterial crude extract (containing beta-ketothiolase, acetoacetyl CoA reductases, enoyl CoA hydratases and PHB synthases) or by a system reconstituted from purified preparations of beta-ketothiolase, acetoacetyl CoA reductase and PHB synthase, was observed only in the presence of NADPH, but not NADH. Among various enzymes involved in PHB metabolism, only the specific activity of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase was elevated 5-fold within 2 h after the addition of glucose to the cells grown in the basal medium. These findings suggest that, in Z. ramigera I-16M, acetoacetyl CoA is directly reduced to D(-)-beta-hydroxybutyryl CoA by the NADP+-dependent reductase, and PHB synthesis is at least partially controled by NADPH availability through glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
Dibenamine (DB) produced contraction due to influx and release of Ca in normal medium, whereas it produced relaxation of the K-induced contraction due to depression of the activity of the muscle cell membrane. DB inhibited active influx, passive influx and release of Ca induced by ACh in this order as the concentrations were increased and also inhibited the contraction by histamine selectively as compared with the contractions by ACh, K and Ba, the inhibition of the ACh-, K- and Ba-contractions being almost to the same degree. In addition, DB inhibited to much the same degree the phasic contraction(PC) and tonic contraction(TC) by histamine, whereas it inhibited TC in preference to PC induced by ACh, K and Ba. Irreversible inhibition by DB of ACh-, K- and Ba-induced contractions were protected by Ca, whereas those of histamine-induced contraction were selectively protected by histamine and antihistamine, but not by Ca. These results indicate that the antagonism of DB and its irreversibility against histamine may be due to blockade of the histaminergic receptor, whereas those against ACh, K and Ba may be due to inhibition of the Ca-site. Evidence has been obtained suggesting that the irreversible parallel shift to the right of the log concentration-action curve of histamine after washout of DB may be due to spare receptors, whereas that of ACh, K or Ba may be due to inhibition of the Ca-site.
The cerebral metabolic effects of 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 20, 30 and 60 min exposure to 1% CO were studied in lightly anesthetized rats by measurement of cerebral cortical contents of selected glycolytic and citric acid cylce intermediates, as well as tissue energy phosphates. The initial change in the glycolytic sequence occurred at 2.5 min with decreases in tissue glucose and glucose-6-phosphate and increases in fructose-1-6-diphosphate which indicated an activation of phosphofructokinase and hexokinase. The "crossover" pattern between glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-1,6-diphosphate was present at 5, 7.5 and 10 min, but not at 20, 30 and 60 min and thus confirmed previous observations that detection of phosphofructokinase activation in acute unifactorial cerebral hypoxia requires tissue study during the early phases of the experimental exposure. The initial activation of phosphofructokinase occurred in the absence of detectable changes in the tissue content of ATP, ADP, AMP or phosphocreatine and therefore suggested that an imbalance of tissue energy homeostasis is not a prerequisite for the activation of glycolysis in CO intoxication. One percent CO resulted in an increasing malate/oxaloacetate ratio at 5 min, followed by a decrease in alpha-ketoglutarate and aspartate at 7.5 min which suggested a shift in the aspartate aminotransferase reaction towards the replenishment of oxaloacetate removed via the malate dehydrogenase reaction. Subsequent increases in alpha-ketoglutarate at 10, 20, 30 and 60 min were associated with increases in alanine, indicating a contributing role for a secondary shift of the alanine aminotransferase reaction in the replenishment of alpha-ketoglutarate. A comparison of the CO induced changes in the glycolytic and citric acid cycle pathways with those seen in acute hypoxemia indicates no basic qualitative differences in the metabolic responses of brain tissue to the two conditions.
Escherichia coli B was cultured continuously in succinate-minimal medium under conditions of oxygen limitation in the phauxostat. With decreasing oxygenation and consequent decreasing growth rates, the complement of terminal cytochrome oxidases changed as follows: high growth rates, cytochrome o; intermediate growth rates, cytochromes o and d; lowest growth rates, cytochromes o, d, and a1. Respiratory kinetics exhibited by nongrowing cell suspensions obtained from continuous cultures indicated that terminal oxidase activity was exhibited by cytochrome o (Km for O2 = 0.2 micron; Vmax = 1.1 to 1.5 mumol of O2 per nmol of cytochrome o per min) and cytochrome d (Km for O2 = 0.024 micron; Vmax = 0.7 mumol of O2 per nmol of cytochrome d per min). During oxygen-limited growth, the molar growth yield referred to respiration, and corrected for maintenance respiration [Yo(max)], was 12.6 g (dry weight) per g-atom of oxygen, not significantly different from the succinate-limited value of 12.0 g (dry weight) per g-atom of oxygen. The rate of maintenance respiration of the oxygen-limited culture was only 3.4 mg-atoms of O per g (dry weight) per h, some threefold less than that of the succinate-limited culture. Respiration-driven proton extrusion did not vary with the growth rate or with the complement of terminal oxidases (H+/O = 3.7; standard deviation, 0.07). We conclude that the content of terminal oxidases is without effect on the efficiency of respiratory energy conservation.
In an attempt to detect the existence of histaminergic mechanisms in the regulation of prolactin secretion in rats, the effects of histidine and histamine-receptor antagonists (chlorpheniramine and metiamide) on plasma prolactin levels in urethan-anesthetized rats were investigated in relation to other aminergic mechanisms. Chlorpheniramine was used as an H1-receptor antagonist and metiamide as an H2-receptor antagonist. Wistar male rats were used under urethan anesthesia and blood was obtained by cardiac puncture. Rat plasma prolactin was measured by radioimmunoassay. As already reported, L-DOPA and diethyldithiocarbamate markedly decreased plasma prolactin levels in rats. Dihydroxyphenylserine increased prolactin levels. Brocresine phosphate, a histidine decarboxylase inhibitor, markedly stimulated prolactin secretion in urethan-anesthetized rats. This stimulation was not blocked by pretreatment with histidine or L-DOPA. Histidine alone did not affect plasma levels of prolactin or methyldopamine-induced increase in plasma prolactin levels. On the other hand, histidine significantly stimulated prolactin secretion in chlorpheniramine-treated rats. In contrast, histidine depressed plasma prolactin levels in metiamide-treated rats. These findings indicate that a dopaminergic component is inhibitory and a noradrenergic one is stimulatory in prolactin secretion in rats and further that there exist the histaminergic mechanisms, relatively independent from other aminergic mechanisms, which might also play an important role in the regulation of prolactin secretion in rats. Furthermore, it is suggested that H1-receptor is stimulatory and H2-receptor is inhibitory in prolactin secretion in rats.
The L-16 vaccine strain of measles virus produced in L-41 cell cultures of various size (0.5-0.2 mm in diameter), with clear or opaque centers, thus being genetically heterogeneous by the S and P markes. The clones derived from the L-16 strain differed from it and from each other in a number of genetic properties. Clones isolated at different temperatures, 35 degrees or 32 degrees C, differed from each other in thermostability, sensitivity to interferon, interferon-inducing activity, antigenicity and plaque size. Marked correlations were established between cytopathic activity (TC) and reproductive activity in L-41 cell cultures; thermostability at 50 degrees C (T50 character) and inactivation constant; and interferon-inducing activity and sensitivity to interferon.
Studies on the comparative transport capacity of various cell forms of Escherichia coli suggest that glutaraldehyde acts only in the outer regions of the cell envelope and to such an extent that transport of alpha-aminoisobutyric acid is reduced by 50%. Alkaline phosphatase activity in whole cells was severely impaired in the presence of alkaline glutaraldehyde and in NaCl-washed cells both acid and alkaline glutaraldehyde (0.01%) caused approximately 80-90% reduction in enzyme activity in 10 min. Protein content was reduced by only 10-15% with this concentration of glutaraldehyde, and cell volume decreased by the same extent. These results are discussed in terms of the mode of action of the disinfectant.
Eleven beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents and derivatives were evaluated for their ability to affect systolic arterial blood pressure and pulse rate in unanesthetized, male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and normotensive Wistar Kyoto (WKY) controls. Animals ranged from 7 to 76 weeks of age. The subcutaneous injection of 5 and 45 mg/kg metoprolol in 52 to 64 week old SHRs and 45 mg/kg twice a day to 26 to 29 week old SHRs produced a significant decrease in blooc pressure. The subcutaneous injection of pindolol (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) produced a greater and more consistent depressor effect in mature SHRs. The subcutaneous administration of sotalol (100 mg/kg) and alprenolol (20 mg/kg) resulted in a depressor action which was significant 120 minutes after injection of the drug. In the doses used, propranolol, oxprenolol, 4-hydroxypropranolol and K9-1366 produced pressor effect in SHRs. Propranolol did not cause this pressor effect in prehypertensive (seven week old) SHRs. Practolol, dextro-propranolol and KO-1313 had no effect on blood pressure in the doses used. Propranolol, pindolol, metoprolol, dextro-propranolol, 4-hydroxypropranolol, practolol, oxprenolol, KO-1366 and KO-1313 produced no significant effects on blood pressure in normotensive WKY controls in the doses tested. Placing oral doses of 160 mg/kg/day of metoprolol in the drinking water for seven days significantly lowered blood pressure in 14 week old SHRs previously exposed to ineffective doses of 77 mg/kg/day for 24 days. The administration of oral doses of oxprenolol (40 mg/kg/day) in drinking water for three weeks had a slight but insignificant pressor effect. Smaller doses of metoprolol (15 and 39 mg/kg/day for three to four weeks) and practolol (70 to 85 mg/kg/day for two weeks) had no effect on 52 week old SHRs. Oral doses of pindolol, metoprolol, practolol and oxprenolol had no significant effect on blood pressure in WKY controls. There was no clear relationship between the effects of the drugs on blood pressure and their ability to affect the pulse rate. Similarly, there did not appear to be any consistent relationship between the potency of the beta-blocking drug and the blood pressure lowering action. In addition, neither cardioselective beta-blockade nor sympathomimetic properties allowed the prediction of blood pressure responses to the administration of those agents possessing these features. Although SHRs provide a valuable model of human essential hypertension, the variable effects reported here and elsewhere in the literature require caution as to the applicability and usefulness of testing and evaluating beta-adrenergic blocking drugs for theri potential anti-hypertensive effects in this particular form of experimental hypertension.
Chloride self-exchange in human red cells was studied between 0 degrees C and 38 degrees C. At higher temperatures the flow-tube method was used. Although the general features of chloride transport at 0 degrees C and 38 degrees C are similar, the following differences were found: (a) the maximum pH of chloride self-exchange flux was lowered 0.6 pH unit from 7.8 to 7.2 when temperature was increased from 0 degrees C to 38 degrees C; (b)the apparent half-saturation constant increased from 28 mM at 0 degrees C to 65 mM at 38 degrees C; (c) chloride transport at body temperature is slower than predicted by other investigators by extrapolation from low-temperature results. Chloride transport increased only 200 times when temperature was raised from 0 degrees C to 38 degrees C, because the apparent activation energy decreased from 30 kcal mol(-1) to 20 kcal mol(-1) above a temperature of 15 degrees C; (d) a study of temperature dependence of the slower bromide self-exchange showed that a similar change of activation energy occurred around 25 degrees C. Both in the case of Cl(-) (15 degrees C) and in the case of Br(-) (25 degrees C), critical temperature was reached when the anion self-exchange had a turnover number of about 4x10(9) ions cell (-1)s(-1); (e) inhibition of chloride transport by DIDS (4,4'- diisothiocyano-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonate)revealed that the deflection persisted at 15 degrees C at partial inhibition (66 percent) presumably because DIDS inactivated 66 percent of the transport sites. It is suggested that a less temperature- dependent step of anion exchange becomes rate limiting at the temperature where a critical turnover number is reached.
The well known effects of the lowering of the intraerythrocyte 2, 3, diphosphoglycerate (2, 3, DPG) level and hypothermia, on the affinity of oxygen for hemoglobin, lead the authors to study the influence of these parameters on this affinity during general anesthesia. The following observations were made in 15 adult subjects, undergoing prolonged general anaesthesia (average time: 3 hrs. 10 minutes): the dissociation curve of oxyhemoglobin (DCO) by the method of mixing, the intraerythrocyte 2,3, DPG level, the hemoglobin concentration and arterial blood parameters (PO2, PCO2, pH). These measurements were recorded before and after the general anaesthesia. The results were the following: a significant reduction of P50, measured under standard conditions (from 27.64 +/- 1.74 torr to 25.57 +/- 2.28, p less than or equal to 0.01) associated with a decrease in 2,3, DPG (from 0.94 +/- 0.31 mol/mol Hb at 0.64 +/- 0.24 p less than 0.01). Among the factors responsible for this variation in the affinity, it was proved that the volume of blood transfused was of importance as well as a decrease in body temperature during the operation. When the temperature is made to vary from 37 degrees C to 35 degrees C. the P50 ranges from 25.57 +/- 2.28 to 22.86 +/- 0.97 (p less than 0.01). To conclude the authors underline the importance of hypothermia and the volume of blood transfused (average time of preservation = 15 days) on the effects of the affinity of oxygen for hemoglobin.
Aconitase and NAD linked isocitrate dehydrogenase were present in Ascaris lumbricoides muscle at only very low activities, whilst there were significant levels of citrate synthase, NADP linked isocitrate dehydrogenase, 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and succinic thiokinase. Pyruvate dehydrogenase was present in A. lumbricoides muscle at levels comparable with mammalian tissues and results suggest that it is modulated via a phosphotransferase/phosphatase system. The tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates, citrate, isocitrate and 2-oxoglutarate were all detected in freeze clamped muscle, but their steady state levels were considerably lower than those found in mammalian tissues.
In order to assess the subjective effects of nefopam, a new non-opiate analgesic, a study was designed using highly educated, young, middle-to-upper class subjects in a naturalistic setting. Results suggest that the design is capable of differentiating variations in subjective drug effects. On a number of measures, 10 mg of d-amphetamine, a modest dosage, could be distinguished from placebo, showing changes in the direction expected for stimulant drugs. Nefopam (90 mg), on the other hand, showed few differences from placebo or caffeine (300 mg). Nefopam appeared mildly dysphoric, rather than stimulant, in subjective effects.
Detergent-resistant phospholipase A, which is tightly bound to the outer membranes of Escherichia coli K-12 cells, was purified approximately 2000-fold to near homogeneity by solubilization with sodium dodecylsulfate and butan-1-ol, acid precipitation, acetone fractionation and column chromatographies on Sephadex G-100 in the presence of sodium dodecylsulfate and on DEAE-cellulose in the presence of Triton X-100. The final preparation showed a single band in the sodium dodecylsulfate gel system. The enzyme hydrolyzes both the 1-acyl and 2-acyl chains of phosphatidylethanolamine or phosphatidylcholine. It also attacks 1-acyl and 2-acylglycerylphosphorylethanolamine. Thus, this enzyme shows not only phospholipase A1 and lysophospholipase L1 activities but also phospholipase A2 and lysophospholipase L2 activities. The enzyme lost its activity completely on incubation at 80 degrees C for 5 min at either pH 6.4 or pH 8.0. It was stable in 0.5% sodium dodecylsulfate at below 40 degrees C. The enzyme was inactivated on incubation for 5 min at 90 degrees C in 1% sodium dodecylsulfate/1% 2-mercaptoethanol/4 M urea. The native and inactivated enzymes showed different protein bands with RF values corresponding to Mr 21 000 and Mr 28 000 respectively, in a sodium dodecylsulfate gel system. Triton X-100 seemed to protect the enzyme from inactivation. The purified enzyme was fully active on phosphatidylethanolamine in the presence of 0.0002% or 0.05% Triton X-100. The enzyme requires Ca2+. From its properties this enzyme seems to be identical with the enzyme purified from crude extracts of Escherichia coli B by Scandella and Kornberg. However, it differs from the latter in its positional specificity and susceptibility to sodium dodecylsulfate. Possible explanation of the difference of positional specificity of the two preparations is also described.
Pharmacokinetic and metabolic studies with 3H-etilefrine were performed to assess the importance of a first-pass effect on the pharmacodynamic action of this sympathomimetic amine. Identical amounts of 3H-activity, ca. 80% of the dose, were excreted in the urine after intravenous or oral administration, which indicates complete enteral absorption of the drug. Comparison of the areas under the plasma curves of unchanged etilefrine after both routes of administration resulted in a bioavailability factor of 0.55, which can be explained by an extensive first-pass effect. The time curve of plasma levels of etilefrine was compatible with an open 2-compartment model characterized by a rather large volume of distribution (Vd, beta) of 160 1, and a predominant half life of 2 hours. The pharmacodynamic action corresponded to the amount of drug in the central compartment. The major pathway of metabolism of etilefrine was conjugation to form the phenolic sulphate, and a very minor proportion of the drug was excreted as the corresponding hydroxymandelic acid. This metabolic pattern seems to confirm our hypothesis that phenylalkylamines with hydroxyl group in the m-position of the benzene ring are predominantly conjugated in contrast to p-hydroxylated compounds which are mainly deaminated.
Deaths from coronary heart disease and myocardial infarct may occur in previously undiagnosed subjects (the so called pre-hospital phase), in hospital following admission to a coronary care unit, or following discharge. Mortality in the pre-hospital phase has been estimated at 35--40 per cent. Within Australia the mortality in the coronary care unit is 11--17 per cent. Following discharge, the mortality is about 20 per cent in the first 12 months and then occurs at about four to five per cent per year for the first five years.
A preliminary, single-blind, dose-ranging study was carried out in 30 patients with essential hypertension to assess the efficacy of nadolol, a new beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent without intrinsic sympathomimetic action and with an extremely long plasma half-life. After a 2-week period on placebo, patients were treated for 14 weeks with daily doses of 40 mg nadolol (20 mg twice daily). Dosage was increased every second week up to a maximum of 560 mg daily or until the patient was stabilized at an effective normotensive dose level. The results showed that at the end of the trial period there was a significant reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure (approximately 34/21 mmHg) at an average daily dose of 110 mg nadolol. Apart from a tendency to bradycardia, explained by the drug's lack of sympathomimetic action, no other side-effects attributable to treatment were reported and no patient complained of sleep disturbance.
The immobilized form of proteases complex of Str. griseus actinomycete is obtained by means of glutaric aldehyde with aminoethyl cellulose. Hydrolysis of synthetic substrates showed that the system of peptide hydrolases is bound, but the ratio of activities as compared to the initial proteolytic complex changes, pH-optimum of the total proteolytic activity, pH- and temperature optima of stability are not changed with immobilization. On the whole no essential stabilization of the complex was observed. After five repeated cycles of the immobilized form utilization of the activity loss accounts for 40-60%.
Acetic acid was found to repress cholinesterase synthesis in the cells of Arthrobacter simplex var. cholinesterasus even at very low concentrations (0.1%). The repression is very stable. It is not eliminated by glucose or an organic acid of the Krebs cycle being added to the medium with acetic acid. The combination of acetic and butyric acids decreases the repression but does not eliminate it. The kinetics of cholinesterase synthesis was different in the cells grown on the medium with acetic acid and the cells cultivated on the medium with acetic acid and glucose, then washed and transferred to a fresh growth medium with glucose and acetylcholine as the sources of carbon.
The superior cervical ganglion (SCG) of the guinea pig has been investigated by a multidisciplinary approach. Dopamine (50 micron) produced no increase in cyclic AMP levels above control values of 27.9 pmole/mg protein, but 50 micron isoproterenol produced cyclic AMP levels of 210 pmole/mg protein, indicating the existence of a beta-adrenergic receptor-adenylate cyclase complex. The SIF cells were studied by fluorescence histochemistry, which indicated that two morphological types were present. A few Type I cells of the guinea pig SCG were solitary, but most were present in clusters containing many Type II cells. Immunohistochemical localization of antibodies to dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT) demonstrated that types of SIF cell localize antibodies to DBH but not PNMT, providing strong evidence that norepinephrine is the neurotransmitter for all the SIF cells of the guinea pig SCG. Determination of the ratio of norepinephrine to dopamine confirmed that no other dopamine pools exist in the guinea pig SCG.
In two studied variants of G-6-PD without chronic hemolysis in probands, sensitivity of enzymes to inhibition by NADPH was decreased. Ki for NADPH was 28 micronM in Gd Lublin and 19 micronM in Gd Pozna. Susceptibility to the oxidant-induced hemolysis was described in probands, as well as in patients hemizygous for two other variants of G-6-PD with increased Ki for NADPH. It is suggested that in these cases, the oxidant-induced hemolysis is aggravated by their inability to counteract the drop in NADPH concentration with an increase in G-6-PD activity.
To study simultaneously the acid-base processes in the esophagus, stomach and duodenum a procedure involving the use of multichannel pH measurements is proposed and a setup designed whose basic elements are a 6-channel pH-probe and a registering device. A visual and graphic registration of the investigation results is envisaged.
The intestinal epithelium of the small and large intestine of fetal rats (19th, 20th and 21st day of pregnancy) newborn and juvenile rats (1st to 50th day of life) adult rats (3rd to 4th month) and senile rats (18th to 30th month) was investigated by means of morphology, enzyme histochemistry and discelectrophoresis. The results obtained permit division of the development and aging of the rat intestinal epithelium into five periods: 1. The period of prenatal development. 2. The period of postnatal development. 3. The period of adaptation. 4. The stage of adult maturity. 5. The senile atrophy of the intestinal mucosa.
Today neuropharmacas are a helpful part in the conservative treatment of the neurogenic bladder disorders. They are, or course, no "wonder-drugs" and usually lead to an improvement only of the troubles, but rarely to complete cure. If monotherapy does not lead to the results wanted, one should combine drugs of the same of similar effects but with different pharmacologic targets. A real progress was reached through alpha-receptor-blockers, whose use has, especially in children with myelomeningocele, changed the therapeutic concept in favour of a largely conservative treatment. We already know a number of substances that in one way or other influence the muscles of the bladder and the bladder outlet. If only part of them will reach clinical usage, it can be assumed that the pharmacotherapy will become even more meaningful in the treatment of neurogenic bladder disorders.
Synthesis of the coenzyme A derivatives of bile acids by the mixed anyhydride method results in a product that is contaminated by unreacted CoASH and bile acid. These compounds can be purified by Sephadex LH-20 chromatography. In each case, the purified product is free of starting materials and exhibits an equimolar ratio of bile acid, coenzyme A, and thioester bond. Millimolar extinction coefficients were calculated for these compounds as A259 nm, 15.03 +/- 0.58; A232 nm, 7.60 +/- 0.17; and A232 nm for the thioester bond, 4.12 +/- 0.17. These CoA derivatives were hydrolyzed in strongly alkaline solution, but were stable at physiologic temperature and pH. Utilization of these compounds in the enzymic preparation of taurine conjugates of bile acids indicated 94% activity. These purified CoA derivatives may be useful in studying the enzymic conjugation of bile acids.
In a series of in vitro studies, both the soluble (plasmatic) coagulation system and the cellular (platelet-mediated) aspect of coagulation were shown to be extremely sensitive to relatively minor increases in hydrogen ion concentration. All studies became abnormal at pH 6.8. At pH 6.4, assays of the intrinsic and extrinsic coaglution systems, the polymerization of fibrinogen, and assay of the availability of platelet phospholipid (platelet factor 3) were twice prolonged over control values. Platelet aggregation was reduced by more than 50%. At pH 5.4 in vitro, platelet aggregation and plasma coagulation were both virtually abolished. Furthermore, previously formed platelet aggregates disaggregated at a slightly acid pH. Pepsin further enhanced platelet disaggregation. Because gastric acidity is normally two to four orders of magnitude greater than that which abolishes platelet aggregation and plasma clotting in vitro, and pepsin is present in abundance, we call attention to the probable antihemostatic effect of hydrocloric acid and pepsin in the upper gastrointestinal tract. This in vitro study may provide a rationale for meticulous regulation of intragastric pH in an effort to control upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
The effect of ionic parameters of the medium (pH and ionic strength) on the processes of interaction of tannin-treated erythrocytes and the protein fractions of human serum (macroglobulins, microbulins and albumin) was studied in factorial experiments. Complex effect of these parametres on the processes under investigation and optimum conditions of erythrocyte sensitization were established. Subsequent fixation of antibodies by the erythrocyte diagnostic and their agglutinating activity are manifested in different mannera depending on the conditions of preceding sensitization. Important peculairities were discovered in the mechanism of interaction between the erythrocytes and various serum proteins. The obtained results should be taken into account in the production of erythrocyte antigen and antibody diagnosticums.
A detailed study has been made of the permeability characteristics of human erythrocyte ghosts prepared under isoionic conditions by a glycol-induced lysis (Billah, M.M., Finean, J.B., Coleman, R. and Michell, R.H. (1976) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 433, 45-54). Impermeability to large molecules such as dextran (average molecular weight 70 000) was restored immediately and spontaneously after each of the 5-7 lyses that were required to remove all of the haemoglobin. Permeabilities to smaller molecules such as MgATP2-, [3H]inositol and [14C]choline were initially high but could be greatly reduced by incubation at 37 degrees C for an hour. The extent of such resealing decreased as the number of lyses to which the ghosts had been subjected increased. Both removal of haemoglobin and permeabilities to small molecules were affected significantly by pH, CA3+ concentrations and divalent cation chelators. Maximum resealing was achieved in ghosts prepared in the basic ionic medium (130 mM KCl, 10 nM NaCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 10 mM N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulphonic acid (HEPES)) at pH 7.0 (0 degrees C) and with a calcium level around 10(-5) M. Acidic pH facilitated the removal of haemoglobin whilst the presence of divalent cation chelators showed down its release. Retention of K+ by ghosts leaded with K+ during the first lysis and subsequently incubated at 37 degrees C was substantial but lation chelators slowed down its released. Retention of K+ by ghosts loaded with K+ during the first lysis and subsequently incubated at 37 degrees C was substantial but little K+ could be retained within the haemoglobin-free ghosts. Permeability of the ghosts to K+ after one lysis was affected by temperature, pH, Ca2+ concentrations and by the presence of divalent cation chelators.
This paper presents the methods for galenical investigations of a new gastrotherapeutic preparation. The results and their possible relations to therapy are discussed. The preparation is presented a press-coated tablet. Its antacid characteristics concerning the rate of effectiveness, potency and duration are compared with leading brands on the German market. Pepsin inactivation together with the rapid liberation of the spasmolytic agent propantheline and the psychically stabilising agent peranzine are demonstrated. The results of the stability tests for the active ingredients and the in vitro availability are described. The new product is a gastrotherapeutic preparation, which fulfils all requirements for rapid action and reliable therapy.
The release of slow reacting substance (SRS) from rat basophilic leukemia cells (RBL-1) by the ionophore A23187 (5-10 mug/ml) was stimulated 5-fold by arachidonate and inhibited 78% by 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoate (an inhibitor of both fatty acid cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase). Linoleic acid and linolenic acid both inhibited SRS formation, whereas indomethacin (a cyclooxygenase inhibitor) had no effect. Radiolabel from [14C]- or [3H]arachidonate was incorporated into SRS as indicated by comigration of radioactivity and bioreactivity in several chromatographic systems after purification to apparent radiochemical homogeneity. The radiolabeled SRS was clearly separated chromatographically from other known arachidonate metabolites. Thus, SRS appears to be a previously undescribed product of arachidonic acid metabolism, probably formed through the lipoxygenase pathway. The ability to prepare purified, biosynthetically labeled, SRS should be of considerable help in further studies of its structure, biologic function, and catabolism.
Adult metachromatic leukodystrophy is a demyelinating disease due to an inherited lack of arylsulfatase A activity. The purpose of this paper is to present the characteristics of this disorder as they occurred chronologically in two siblings, prior to and subsequent to the appearance of gross neurological deficits. A deficit in spatial relationships, as contrasted with verbal abilities, was observed initially in both cases at age 13. Initial psychiatric symptoms were noted at age 16 and 18, with both patients being diagnosed subsequently as schizophrenic. Gross neurological deficits were observed 2 and 13 years, respectively, after the appearance of psychiatric symptoms. A deficit in spatial relationships may be a very sensitive early indicator of adult metachromatic leukodystrophy.
N-[gamma-(2-Chlorophenothiazin-10-yl)propyl]ethylenediamine (Cl-PPED), a common metabolite of prochlorperazine and perphenazine, was orally administered to male rats  at a dose of 50 mg/kg, and its concentrations in plasma, liver, lung, kidney, and brain were followed from 6 hr to 40 days after dosage. Small quantities were measured by two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography of a fluorescent derivative and in situ fluorometry of the chromatograms. The kinetic behavior of Cl-PPED in brain differed from that in other tissues in that the concentration maximum was  achieved later and the elimination half-life was distinctly longer (8 days vs. 1.2-3 days). Cl-PPED was evenly among the three major brain regions. Subcellular fractionation of liver and brain revealed preferential localization in mitochondria.
As earlier investigations of renal acidification capacity were poorly standardized it was considered important to develop a clinically useful method. The ability of the kidneys to acidify urine was studied in 19 normal persons by short ammonium chloride loading. Ammonium chloride was given in a dose of 150 mmol/m2 body surface in one of four different ways: whole tablets, crushed tablets, capsules and in solution. The degree of acidosis developed in each subject was measured in arterialized capillary blood samples. Urine was analysed for pH, titratable acid, ammonium ions (TA and NH4+) and phosphate. The excretion of TA, NH4+ and phosphate increased with the degree of acidosis in blood whilst urine pH decreased. The critical level appeared to lie around a base excess of -6 mmol/l below which all subjects could acidify their urine to a pH below 5.0. For clinical applications a frame of reference with tolerance limits is given for acidification capacity related to the degree of acidosis expressed as base excess.
15 infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease (pulmonary atresia, Ebstein-Syndrom) were treated with Prostaglandin E1. During treatment there was a significant rise of PO2 and SO2 in the arterial, capillary and central venous blood. There was a minor rise of pH and HCO3; the arterial pCO2 fell slightly. We used PGE1-therapy as pretreatment before the heart operation, so that the critical babies go to the operation well oxygenated and in a better state. The side effects we observed (tachypnoe, tachycardia, hyperpyrexia, augmented urine output, erythemas, apnoic spells) seemed less important than the great advantage of a better oxygenation of these hypoxic babies.
Nine cases of Mel B (a melaminyl arsenical used in treating sleeping sickness patients who have developed central nervous system involvement) treated patients who developed reactions to the drug are described. They all developed high temperatures, pyrexia, diarrhoea, vomitting or itching and some had convulsions. Three of the nine described patients died. It is recommended that extra care and caution is needed while treating patients with Mel B.
The influence of buffer, pH, Mg2+, ATP, Na+, K+ and temperature on the extent and rate of aminoacyl-tRNA synthesis was studied with the shark Mustelus mento liver tRNAs and aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. The optimum pH for the aminoacylation of tRNAMet was 8.3 and for tRNAVal 7.0. For these two tRNAs the Mg2+ optimum was related to the levels of ATP required and to the pH of the reactions. It is suggested that the Mg2+ concentration required for each aminoacylation system reflects the true conditions under which the substrate for the enzyme, the MgATP2- complex, is formed. The effect of monovalent cations was also examined. Val-tRNA synthesis was slightly stimulated up to a concentration of 50 mM NaCl (KCl). Over 100 mM salt, a rapid inhibition was observed. Met-tRNA synthesis behaves differently by being stimulated over a wide range of salt concentrations.
In an effort to improve the health care in a rural county in Southern Appalachia, physicians' assistants (MEDEX) have been employed in the offices of three general practitioners over a three-year period. This program was evaluated using a before-after and experimental-control (county) design, utilizing data both from physician office contracts and a continuing survey of the populations of the experimental and control counties. Results show the following: 1) utilization (average office visits per week) increased; 2) types of care (preventive versus curative) remained stable; 3) the hospitalization rate increased continuously during the three years for those physicians using physicians' assistants; and 4) the physicians' assistant functioned more as a physician substitute than as an assistant. It is concluded that although use of physicians' assistants may increase utilization rates, they may not reduce the long-range cost of medical care through providing more preventive or ambulatory (as opposed to hospital) care.
Two kinds of cathepsin D were found in Japanese monkey lung and were named cathepsins D-I and D-II. Cathepsin D-I was partially purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation and DEAE-cellulose column chromatography. It had properties common to other ordinary cathepsins D in terms of the elution position from a DEAE-cellulose column at pH 8.0, the pH-dependence of activity toward acid-denatured hemoglobin, and the molecular weight of 35,000 as determined by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration. On the other hand, cathepsin D-II was purified about 1,000-fold by a combination of ammonium sulfate fractionation and column chromatographies on DEAE-cellulose and Sephadex G-100. It was a very acidic protein as judged from its elution position from a DEAE-cellulose column at pH 8.0, and the high mobility toward the anode on disc gel electrophoresis at pH 8.6. Its molecular weight was determined to be 35,000 by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration and 39,000 by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. It was optimally active at pH 2.8 against acid-denatured hemoglobin as a substrate, showing 80% of the optimal activity at pH 1.0, and almost no activity above pH 4.0. This pH-profile of activity was similar to that of monkey pepsin C (gastricsin). It did not hydrolyze N-acetyl-L-phenylalanyl-3,5-diiodo-L-tyrosine, a synthetic substrate for pepsin, but was inhibited by a series of pepsin inhibitors such as pepstatin, 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane, p-bromophenacyl bromide, and diazoacetyl-DL-norleucine methyl ester, although the diazo reagent was a rather weak inhibitor of the enzyme. The amino acid composition of cathepsin D-II was found to be fairly different from those of other cathepsins D. However, it showed a striking resemblance to that of Japanese monkey pepsinogen C, suggesting some evolutionary relationship between them.
Ultrafiltration with a hollow fiber device was studied as an alternative method to the lyophilization or thin-layer distillation techniques in the production of salt-poor, concentrated human albumin preparations for clinical use. A number of process parameters are discussed. Combination of gel filtration and ultrafiltration provides an interesting alternative to the currently used systems.
Adsorption spectra of Hb+ and HbO2 adsorbed on silica and monolayers cholesterol supported on silica have been studied. It is shown that immobilization leads to new states of proteins, their properties depending on the nature of support and conditions of adsorption. Adsorption of haemoglobin leads to its inactivation. The rate of inactivation decreases with an increase of surface concentration of haemoglobin and with simultaneous adsorption of inert proteins.
Cardiopulmonary bypass using hemodilution with isotonic glucose water was performed on seven dogs. Intense systemic metabolic acidosis, hyponatremia, hypochloremia, and hyperglycemia were accompanied by only comparatively small changes in the corresponding cerebrospinal fluid values. The data suggested that in the present study, cardiopulmonary bypass was not associated with gross disruptions of the barriers for bicarbonate, sodium, chloride, and glucose between blood and cerebrospinal fluid.
Phenobarbital (1-2  10(-4)M) markedly increases the frequency of miniature end-plate potentials at the neuromuscular synapse of the frog. This effect was seen in calcium free media containing EGTA. The drug probably acts presynaptically at an intracellular locus to increase the presynaptic free calcium concentration.
The effect of adrenalectomy on the activities of monoamine oxidase (MAO), NADH cytochrome c reductase (NCR), succinate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, fumarase, NAD+ nucleosidase and acid phosphatase in homogenates of rat hearts was examined. Besides MAO only the NCR activity increased. However, both the total and the rotenone-insensitive NCR activities increased, with that of the rotenone-insensitive being about half of the total, which indicated that the effect of adrenalectomy was exerted on components of this enzyme localized on both the inner and outer membranes of the mitochondrion. The lack of effect on the other enzymes suggests that adrenalectomy has a relatively selective action on MAO and NCR, and does not work by a generalized increase in protein synthesis or by an effect on the FAD cofactor. The MAO increase was seen with a variety of substrates, and was due to a rise in Vmax without change in Km. The response to adrenalectomy in the summer differed from that seen in the winter. The possible reasons for these effects of adrenalectomy are discussed.
1. In an experiment in which a high-fat supplement was given in the dry form to lambs offered dried grass ad lib., both the voluntary intake and digestibility of the dried grass were reduced. When the high-fat supplement was given in a liquid suspension so that the rumen was by-passed, the voluntary intake and digestibility of the dried grass were not significantly altered. 2. The effect of injecting an emulsion of tallow into the rumen of sheep on rumen metabolism was studied in another experiment. Increasing the fat supplementation lowered the rate of digestion of both dried grass and cotton thread, lowered markedly the concentration of rumen ammonia, and raised the proportion of propionic acid in the rumen.
Two endonucleases, AvaI and AvaII, were isolated from Anabaena variabilis on the basis of their ability to make a limited number of breaks at specific points in bacteriophage lambda DNA. Neither enzyme has cofactor requirements beyond Mg2+. Endonuclease AvaI makes eight breaks in the phage lambda chromosome at which the 5'-terminal sequence is pPy-C-G-N. AvaII endonuclease cuts phage lambda DNA more extensively, yielding fragments with the 5'-terminal sequence G-T-C-N or G-A-C-N. Neither enzyme generates cohesive ends.
Circulating immune complexes were determined in patients with acute viral hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis and periarteriitis nodosa with the Raji cell technique. Circulating immune complexes were found in 11/18 HBsAg positive and HBsAg negative cases of acute viral hepatitis. In HBsAg positive chronic active hepatitis immune complexes were detectable in 42/43 cases but only in 1/27 HBsAg negative cases. Ten healthy HBsAg carriers demonstrated no detectable immune complexes. Using FITC conjugated antisera against HBs, HBc, and e antigen, immune complexes could not be found in any case of acute viral hepatitis or chronic active hepatitis. Elution of immune complexes from Raji demonstrated IgG, C'3 and a lack of HBsAg, HBc or e antigen. Immune complexes were present in 4/8 cases with periarteriitis nodosa. Viral components were detectable in one case.
A 54-year-old man was diagnosed as having prune-belly syndrome, a deficiency of abdominal musculature, cryptorchidism, abnormalities of the urinary tract, and chronic renal failure. The patient was asymptomatic until the diagnosis was made at the age of 54 years; he is one of the oldest living patients to be reported in detail. Recognition of the syndrome in adults with chronic renal failure is important.
The influence of a number of steroid molecules on hepatic metabolism was determined in relationship to their ability to alter endotoxin lethality in intact mice. Progesterone, testosterone, estradiol, pregnenolone-16-alpha-carbonitrile and spironolactone did not alter endotoxin lethality, liver glycogen or tryptophan pyrrolase (TP) levels; all these materials increased liver tyrosine transaminase (TT) levels most probably due to mediation by endogenously liberated glucocorticoid hormones. Aldosterone and deoxycorticosterone induced liver TP, TT and glycogen but did not protect against lethality. Cortisone, hydrocortisone, triamcinolone, dexamethasone and 9-alpha-fluorohydrocortisone protected against lethality, increased liver glycogen and TT, but only triamcinolone induced liver TP. Collectively, there was no clear relationship between the protective effect and the increase or decrease of a given liver process. These further emphasize the need to reconsider molecular mechanisms of endotoxic reactions.
Motile extracts from D, discoideum and A. proteus have been characterized in order to compare the structural dynamics and chemical regulation of movement in 2 different types of amoeboid cells. The structural dynamics of both extracts involve the formation of a nonmotile cytoskeleton followed by the contraction of actin and myosin to generate both direct contractile force and cytoplasmic streaming. The contractions are regulated by calcium ions and a threshold of ca. 1.0 X 10(-6) M calcium induces a transformation of actin to the free F-actin state which is capable of interacting with myosin. Furthermore, 3 low molecular weight proteins are concentrated along with actin and myosin during contraction and might play a regulatory role in movement. Several common characteristics of amoeba cytoplasm have been exhibited by these two types of amoeboid cells. The major contractile and "associated" proteins are similar, actin and associated proteins are structurally dynamic, and movement is regulated by calcium. The different modes of movement observed in different types of amoeboid cells could result from the site, rate, and extent of actin transformation followed in some regions by contractions.
Guanylate cyclase was found to be present in a number of astroblast and neuroblast clones. No correlations were observed between the enzyme activity and the nature of the clone. The enzyme shows a requirement for manganese ions and is stimulated by calcium. When the astroblast clone NN is cultured together with the neuroblast clone M1 for two months and the astroblast cells again isolated, a reduced guanylate cyclase activity was found.
Preoperative preparation of rats with lactulose, 2.5 ml/kg of a 52.5% w/w solution, for two days resulted in increased bursting pressure and bursting wall tension of low colonic anastomoses three days postoperatively when compared with unprepared controls (85.8, viz, 36.1 mm Hg and 0.55, viz, 0.19 dynes/cm X 10(-5). After seven days, there was no appreciable difference in the rats with colonic acidification and in the controls.
Newborn rats were treated at 1 and 2 days after birth with 100 mg/kg 6-hydroxydopamine (60HDA), s.c. Testing on several operant behavioural tasks was begun at 6 months of age. On a fixed ratio 30 (FR 30) schedule of food reinforcement, the neonatal 60HDA treated rats responded at a significantly higher rate. Further analysis of the FR 30 response pattern indicated that the higher rate was due to a decrease in the amount of time spent pausing after the receipt of each reinforcer. The 60HDA treatment failed to alter the rat's behaviour during the extinction of the FR 30 response and on the progressive ratio or variable interval schedules of food reinforcement. Biochemical analysis of several brain areas at 9 months of age showed a decrease in noradrenaline (NA) levels in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, while in the pons-medulla NA content was doubled. The tyrosine hydroxylase activity in these same brain areas was not significantly altered, but there appeared to be some decrease in the activity of this enzyme in the hippocampus. Comparison of the operant behavioural effects seen after various lesioning procedures in this and other studies, suggest the effects on FR performance are a result of destruction of NA neurons in the hippocampus and/or the apparent regeneration of neurons in the pons-medulla.
A 69-year-old man with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency was treated with nitrofurantoin for pyuria. Four days later he presented with metabolic acidosis due to excess lactic acid, a decline in curculating hemoglobin, reticulocytosis, elevated serum transaminase levels, and hyperbilirubinemia. The drug was withdrawn and the hyperlactatemia subsided in three days without specific treatment. In vitro, nitrofurantoin is capable of stimulating erythrocyte glucose utilization aand lactate production, and inhibiting the generation of reduced glutathione. In vivo, this drug is capable of producing hemolysis in susceptible subjects and hepatocellular injury. The temporal proximity of drug ingestion and hemolysis, increased glucose utilization, lactate excess, and hepatic insufficiency suggests that nitrofurantoin may have been responisble for precipitating the clinical and chemical abnormalities observed.
Replacement problems of frontoglabellar skull defects and their recent operative methods come under review. A new method for the prevention of infection of paranasal sinus origin is reported in the article. Possibilities for producing good contour frontal area prothesis are considered here. The new method developed by the authors for orbital roof replacement is justified not only by cosmetics but physiology as well.
Prolylcarboxypeptidase was purified from human kidney 1200-fold with 18% yield. The enzyme had no cathepsin A activity and appeared to be homogeneous in gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of prolylcarboxypeptidase was estimated to be 115,000 by gel filtration. Under denaturing conditions the enzyme dissociated into subunits of 45,000 and 66,500 molecular weight. The enzyme cleaved benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz)-Pro-Phe, representing the COOH-terminal end of angiotensin II and des-Asp1-angiotensin II (angiotensin III), at a rate of 31 micronmol/h/mg of protein. The rate of hydrolysis increased when phenylalanine in the N-protected dipeptide was replaced with alanine, valine, or leucine or when the octapeptide angiotensin II or the heptapeptide angiotensin III were the substrates. The enzyme also cleaved the angiotensin II antagonist saralasin (Sar1-Ala8-angiotensin II). The Km values were 1 mM, 2mM, and 0.77 mM with Cbz-Pro-Phe, angiotensin II, and angiotensin III, respectively. The enzyme had an acid pH optimum (4.5 to 5.5), but hydrolyzed angiotensin III at pH 7 at 50% of the optimal rate. Prolylcarboxypeptidase was inhibited by diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate and pepstatin, but not by sequestering agents or -SH reagents.
Trichlorodiethylenetriaminecobalt (III), [CoCl3dien], which is provided with three good leaving ligands and, hence, capable of binding ATP in a characteristic mode, accelerated effectively and specifically hydrolysis of ATP to ADP and Pi. A kinetic study of the reaction indicated that the rate of hydrolysis was first order with respect to the concentration of ATP in the presence of an excess of [CoCl3dien]. The rate constant was calculated to be 1.05 X 10(-2) min-1 at pH 4.0 (50 degrees C), corresponding to a catalysis of the hydrolysis of ATP by a factor of 150. The complex possessing one good leaving ligand, chlorotetraethylenepentaminecobalt(III), and that having two of them in trans-position, dichlorobis(dimethylglyoximato)cobalt(III) only slightly enhanced the hydrolysis of ATP. Dichloro-cis-alpha- and dichloro-cis-beta-triethylenetetraminecobalt(III) complexes, which have two good leaving ligands and allow chelation of ATP in their coordination sphere, exhibited fairly good activities, although the hydrolysis reactions of ATP occurred in two modes as ATP leads to ADP + Pi and ATP leads to AMP + PPi. The mechanism of ATP-hydrolysis reaction with [CoCl3dien] was also discussed on the basis of the kinetic data.
New mathematical formulas are presented to calculate directly the change in blood pH during CO2, and O2 exchange with blood. pH changes are calculated from changes in blood PCO2 and saturation values or from changes in blood PCO2 and blood PO2 values. Computational results agree well with information obtained from a Dill nomogram. These new formulas have applicability to the modelling of gas exchange in blood oxygenators as well as to estimating blood acid-base parameters following the mixing of blood samples.
Etomidate or R 26490 is a new hypnotic agent produced by JANSSEN and al. in 1971. The first human experimentation was performed in 1972. The authors used Etomidate for 300 anaesthetics given for neuroradiological investigations. Two protocols were used for study: 25 anaesthetics were given with Etomidate as sole anaesthetic to outline its specific properties; 275 angiographies were performed with a combination of Etomidate and fentanyl. In protocol no. 1, the mean consumption was for 1,85 mg/kg/h, in protocol no. 2, the mean consumption was of 0,9 mg/kg/h. Pharmacological study of this drug defines it as a short acting hypnotic agent of low toxicity. Clinical observation shows cardiovascular and respiratory stability. However, frequent myoclonias were noted, when Etomidate was given as a sole anaesthetic. EEG recording and evoked response encephalography helped to outline some effects of Etomidate on central nervous system.
From Ixodes ricinus ticks collected in a tick-borne encephalitis focus in Baden-Wrttemberg, an agent pathogenic exclusively for suckling mice was isolated. Obviously a virus, it passed membrane filters with a pore width of 200 nm. It was resistant to ether and sodium deoxycholate, but not to chloroform. In the complement fixation test it showed a close, and in the neutralisation test a more one-sided relationship to Colorado tick fever virus.
The Michaelis-Menten constant for fumarase (E.C. 4.2.1.2) has been determined by measuring the enzyme activity by the spectrophotometric method of Racker, which depends on the formation or disappearance of the double bond of fumaric acid. When using Na2-fumarate or bencyclan hydrogenfumarate (Fludilat), respectively, as a substrate, a KM-value of 1.3 X 10(-3) M was found for both substances. In a linked assay where the formation of NADH in the reaction of fumarate leads to malate leads to oxaloacetate was used as a parameter for the reaction rate, a KM-value of 1.35 X 10(-3) M was found.
The possible correlation between two important general properties of seminal plasma, osmolality and conductance, and the presence of some pathological conditions of human semen, asthenospermia and oligoasthenospermia, have been studied. Osmolality was measured under carefully controlled conditions by the freezing point depression method and conductance with  a Wheatstone bridge. In addition, volume, by an isotopic dilution method, and pH were also determined. Osmolality of normal human seminal plasma (366 +/- 16 mOsm/Kg) was found to be higher than the osmolality of human blood serum. Abnormal seminal plasma showed a still higher value (428 +/- 38 and 457 +/- 49 mOsm/Kg respectively for astheno- and oligoasthenospermic subjects). Incubation of normal seminal plasma for 24 hours at room temperature produced a significant increase in osmolality (from 366 +/- 16 to 430 +/- 31 mOsm/Kg) while pathological seminal plasma failed to show any modification. Osmolality and conductance values were found to be correlated with semen ejaculated volume in normal subjects. No difference in mean conductance value was found between normal and asthenospermic individuals (10.4 +/- 1.2 against 9.9 +/- 1.0 mhos X 10(-3) respectively). Oligoasthenospermics showed, on the contrary, a significantly higher conductance (12.4 +/- 1.6 mhos X 10(-3)).
The possible use of the swimbladder of carp as auxiliary respiratory organ when the animals are exposed to air has been studied. After exposure to air, blood pH and pO2 and mean swimbladder O2 concentration decrease and blood pCO2 increases in normal animals. Exposure to air after ligation of the pneumatic ducts results in increases in blood pH and pCO2 and decreases in blood pO2 and swimbladder carbon dioxide concentration. Possible reasons for these observations are discussed.
The structure and phospholipid-binding properties of human plasma high density apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) has been studied at pH 7.4 and 3.1 by microcalorimetry, circular dichroism and density gradient ultracentrifugation. At pH values of 7.4 and 3.1, apoA-I binds to dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine (DMPC) to form complexes of similar composition (molar ratio of DMPC/apoA-I of 100) and helical content (67%). At pH 7.4, the lipid-protein association is accompanied by an increase in helical content from 58 to 67% and an exothermic enthalpy of binding (deltaHB) of -90 kcal/mol apoA-I. At pH 3.1, the helical content of apoA-I is increased from 48 to 67% on binding to DMPC and the enthalpy of binding was -170 kcal/mol. We suggest that the difference in the enthalpies of binding (-80 kcal/mol) at pH 3.1 compared to 7.4 is due to the greater coil leads to helix transition at the lower pH.
Selective chronic lesions of the dorsal raphe nucleus or combined lesions of the dorsal and median raphe nuclei did not significantly change the in vivo tyrosine hydroxylation in the striatum as measured by the DOPA accumulation after decarboxylase inhibition. Neither did acute combined lesions of the raphe nuclei, nor did electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus have any significant effect. p-Chloroamphetamine (PCA, 20 mg/kg, i.p.) and p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA, 400 mg/kg, i.p.), known inhibitors of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) synthesis, significantly decreased the DOPA accumulation. The increase in DOPA accumulation observed after LSD (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or BOL (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was seemingly unaffected by pretreatment with PCA or PCPA and also after lesion of the dorsal raphe nucleus. The results suggest that the effect of LSD or BOL on the DOPA accumulation in the striatum is not mediated via a 5-hydroxytryptaminergic control mechanism originating in the dorsal raphe nucleus. A control mediated via the median raphe nucleus cannot be excluded, since LSD did not increase the DOPA accumulation after combined chronic raphe lesions. Such a control would also be in agreement with our previous results suggesting that hte DOPA generation after LSD is controlled by 5-HT receptors.
Octopamine is highly concentrated in neurones of several invertebrate species. Unlike in mammals, octopaminergic neurones in invertebrates are spatially separated from catecholaminergic neurons. In identified nerve cells of Aplysia, however, this amine coexists with other putative neurotransmitters. Octopamine is synthesized in nerves from tyrosine and tyramine and metabolised mainly by monoamine oxidase. When lobster nerves are depolarized, octopamine is liberated by a Ca2+-dependent process. A specific adenylate cyclase is stimulated by octopamine in several invertebrates to activate phosphorylase in the cockroach, induce a light-flash in firefly lattern or inhibit rhythm contractions in locust muscle. All of these observations provide compelling evidence that octopamine is a neurotransmitter in invertebrates. In mammals octopamine is localised in nerves in peripheral tissues and brain where it seems to coexist with noradrenaline, the catecholamine being present in much higher concentrations. Octopamine is released from nerves together with noradrenaline and it may under certain conditions modify the actions of the adrenergic neurotransmitter. Octopamine is present in unusually high concentrations in certain neurological and hepatic diseases and may have a pathophysiological role.
Glucose was eliminated from egg whites, using microorganisms, to prevent melanoidin formation which may damage the product. Desugarization was achieved by means of Acetobacter xylinum, Streptococcus lactis, Propionibacterium shermanii, Pr. petersonii and propionicacid cocci. Optimal conditions of desugarization were found, depending on the physiological characteristics of the above microorganisms. Propionibacterium shermanii may be well used to ferment a liquid egg white. These bacteria have no proteolytic properties and make no use of the egg white. They enrich the egg white with vitamin B12 and propionate, a preserving agent, during fermentation.
Many small cell carcinomas share morphological and physiological characteristics with normal and neoplastic cells of Pearse's APUD series, including pulmonary APUD cells and pulmonary carcinoid tumors. There is very likely more than one type of APUD cell in the lung, and conclusions that small cell carcinomas and carcinoids reflect neoplastic transformation of the same cell type are probably premature. The embryoogic lineage of pulmonary APUD cells is at present uncertain. The hypothesis that all APUD cells are derived from the neural crest is no longer tenable, and although some evidence does suggest a neural contribution to the pulmonary epithelium, additional embryologic studies are required. Some tumors that currently are classified as small cell carcinomas probably do not have APUD cell characteristics, and still others appear to have both APUD and non-APUD features. A  subclassification of small cell carcinomas based on a combination of physiological and morphological features might prove to be of prognostic and therapeutic value, but current knowledge probably would not provide a sufficient foundation for a reliable or practical subclassification. Multidisciplinary studies of the differentiation and function of normal and neoplastic APUD cells in the lungs and elsewhere are needed.
The specific beta-adrenergic agonist radioligand (+/-)-[3H]hydroxybenzylisoproterenol ([3H]HBI) was used to investigate alterations in the beta-adrenergic receptors of frog erythrocytes occurring during the process of agonist-induced, receptor-specific desensitization. There was close agreement between the percentage fall in [3H]HBI binding and that in catecholamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity following periods of preincubation of up to 7 h with 0.1 mM (-)-isoproterenol. Desensitization was maximal by 5 h, resulting in a 69% reduction in [3H]HBI binding and a 67% reduction in isoproterenol-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. In contrast, binding of the beta-adrenergic antagonist (-)-[3H]dihydroalprenolol was significantly less affected by desensitization (p is less than 0.05 at 2 1/2, 5, and 7 h), showing a maximum reduction in binding of only 35% in these experiments. The consistent close agreement of reduction in agonist binding with that in hormone-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity, together with the significant difference observed between agonist and antagonist binding, implies that an alteration occurs during desensitization which preferentially interferes with agonist binding, while antagonist binding is less affected. The locus of this agonist-specific alteration may be the receptor binding site or a site involved in receptor-enzyme coupling. Agonist binding studies may now be used to assess more completely the desensitized state of beta-adrenergic receptors in systems in which marked desensitization of beta-adrenergic responses is associated with little or no reduction in antagonist binding.
On the basis of the data of the literature and their own experiences the theoretical and pratical problems of cranioplasty are dealt with by the authors. The indications of the cranioplasty and the various materials employed are discussed. In the author's opinion, the metacrylate polymerizating to heat has been found the most practical. The use of the metacrylate implant, the modelling and the preparation of the implant, as well as a new method worked out by the authors are discussed. The operative technique, the results and the possible complications are dealt with. Also the authors' new method in order to prevent the infection from the nasal cavity is described.
A significant number of chronic psychotic patients are readmitted to state mental hospitals each year due in large part to their inability or unwillingness to continue taking antipsychotic medication on a voluntary basis. This paper describes an ex post facto study comparing the effectiveness of fluphenazine decanoate, a long acting antipsychotic medication, with a variety of oral antipsychotics in reducing the number of readmissions of two groups of chronic psychotic patients to a state operated mental health facility. The results demonstrated that a group of 61 patients receiving fluphenazine decanoate had signigicantly fewer readmissions during the one year study period than did a comparison group on oral antipsychotics. The findings indicate that long acting antipsychotic medication, as part of an intensive outpatient treatment program, strongly militates against the tendency of chronic psychotic patients to discontinue treatment.
Anorexia nervosa (AN), a psychosomatic disease mainly affecting young women, is characterized by conscious starvation, periods of excessive carbohydrate intake and often deliberate vomiting. Medical history, dental examination, and saliva tests of 39 patients aged 14 to 42 years, having suffered from AN for periods of 1 to 20 years, showed dental caries, due to excessive carbohydrate consumption, in all subjects, often in a rampant form. In patients with a history of intense vomiting (27 cases) severe lingual-occlusal erosion (perimylolysis) was nearly always present. Buccal erosion, mainly due to high consumption of acid fruits and drinks to relieve thirst caused by dehydration, was more frequent in vomiting than in non-vomiting patients. Subnormal values of saliva properties, owing to dehydration or xerostomia-inducing medication, were present in the majority of cases; the lowest values occurred in those vomiting. The association AN - vomiting - perimylolysis is discussed, as well as prophylactic and therapeutic measures. A medical, psychiatric, and dental survey of AN is presented.
A group of patients has been identified with cutaneous necrotizing venulitis (vasculitis). These patients, some with concomitant connective tissue disorders, have skin lesions that  separate them from the arteritis commonly described as rheumatoid vasculitis. HLA typing has been performed on 31 of these unrelated patients with cutaneous necrotizing venulitis, including 19 with associated chronic disorders. The antigen pair A11, BW35 was found in 5 of these 19 patients and in 11 of 346 controls. This difference in frequency is statistically significant. Because HLA genes appear to be linked to immune response genes, these data suggest that such genes may exist in patients with this form of cutaneous necrotizing venulitis with associated connective tissue disease.
Earlier observations showed that unbuffered bathing media held by a closed chamber against the eye would become progressively more acid over a few minutes. Such shifts, however, when examined for the naturally closed eye, even for prolonged periods, were found to be within 1 pH unit of the open-eye measured average.
1. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (Db cAMP, 75-500 microgram/kg), injected into the lateral ventricle of the brain of the cat increased blood pressure, heart rate and splanchnic discharge rate. 2. ATP, but not AMP, induced similar changes; GMP in small doses increased blood pressure. 3. A number of drugs are known to activate adenylate cyclase-induced hypertension, tachycardia and increase splanchnic discharge rate. This was shown for TRH, tetracosactide and a new beta2-adrenoceptor stimulant, NAB 365. 4. Injection into the lateral ventricle of theophylline or Ro 7/2956, both inhibitors of phosphodiesterase, similarly increased blood pressure. 5. Histamine administered by the same route induced similar reactions; it is not known if this action was exerted by activation of H1- or H2-receptors. 6. Somatostatin, known to reduce cAMP levels, induced a small but significant decrease in blood pressure. Melanocyte stimulating hormone release inhibiting factor (MIF) and TSH were ineffective. 7. These results provide evidence for the possibility of a role for cAMP in the central regulation of blood pressure at suprabulbar levels.
The authors note an apparent unawareness of, as well as a paucity of recent literature pertaining to, hyperpyrexia as a complication of psychotropic drug treatment. They report a case of hyperpyrexia in a patient receiving psychotropic agents during a summer heat wave; massive muscle destruction (rhabdomyolysis) with myoglobinuria and acute renal failure make this case of particular interest. Causative mechanisms, preventive measures, and the benefits of prompt recognition and treatment of this condition are discussed.
According to the strain used, spleen cells from mice injected two weeks before with 3 mg BCG, when they are engaged in a graft-versus-host reaction show a decrease in reactivity (C57Bl/6or AKR), an increase (DBA/2, BALB/C or SJL/J) or no modification (CBA, C3H). The in vitro responsiveness to PHA and conA of the treated spleen cells was lower than controls for all the strains studied. However, nylon column purified T cells from BCG treated mice showed a dissociated response, being less stimulated than normal cells by PHA and more so by ConA.
Six primary care practices which utilize both physician and non-physician practitioner types were studied to measure differences between practitioner types in the care of patients. By chart review 1,369 patient-practitioner encounters were examined. Physicians identified less symptoms and signs in their patients and prescribed less non-drug therapies than did non-physicians. Likewise, at follow-up visits, physicians tended to document less follow-up of these types of problems and therapies than non-physicians. When examining the interaction between practitioners, the highest rates of follow-up of all types of problems and therapies were found when the same practitioner saw the patient at two successive visits to the same clinic. When a physician saw a patient following a previous visit to a nurse practitioner, there was a significant drop-off in the follow-up rate of problems and therapies. However, when a nurse practitioner saw the patient following a previous visit to a physician, the drop-off in follow-up rates was not as striking. These findings indicate that the skills of physician and nonphysician practitioners are potentially complementary. However, this potential is not fully exploited, particularly by physicians.
1. Acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase from lactating rat mammary gland has been purified to apparent homogeneity. 2. The purified enzyme has the following characteristics: (a) its specific activity approaches 15 units/mg of protein, (b) the sedimentation constants of the protomeric and polymeric forms of the enzyme are 12 to 13 S and greater than or equal to 40 S, respectively, (c) the polymeric form of the enzyme shows filamentous structures in the electron microscope, and (d) the polypeptide(s) arising from its dissociation reveals a single major component of Mr = 240,000 to 260,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 3. The enzyme contains 1 mol of biotin and approximately 6 mol of phosphate/240,000 g of protein.
1. Chloroplasts washed with Cl--free, low-salt media (pH 8) containing EDTA, show virtually no DCMU-insensitive silicomolybdate reduction. The activity is readily restored when 10 mM Cl- is added to the reaction mixture. Very similar results were obtained with the other Photosystem II electron acceptor 2,5-dimethylquinone (with dibromothymoquinone), with the Photosystem I electron acceptor FMN, and also with ferricyanide which accepts electrons from both photosystems. 2. Strong Cl--dependence of Hill activity was observed invariably at all pH values tested (5.5--8.3) and in chloroplasts from three different plants: spinach, tobacco and corn (mesophyll). 3. In the absence of added Cl- the functionally Cl--depleted chloroplasts are able to oxidize, through Photosystem II, artificial reductants such as catechol, diphenylcarbazide, ascorbate and H2O2 at rates which are 4--12 times faster than the rate of the residual Hill reaction. 4. The Cl--concentration dependence of Hill activity with dimethylquinone as an electron acceptor is kinetically consistent with the typical enzyme activation mechanism: E(inactive) + Cl- in equilibrium E . Cl- (active), and the apparent activation constant (0.9 mM at pH 7.2) is unchanged by chloroplast fragmentation. 5. The initial phase of the development of inhibition of water oxidation in Cl--depleted chloroplasts during the dark incubation with NH2OH (1/2 H2SO4) is 5 times slower when the incubation medium contains Cl- than when the medium contains NH2OH alone or NH2OH plus acetate ion. (Acetate is shown to be ineffective in stimulating O2 evolution).
The rapidly increasing use of water for agricultural and hydroelectric development in developing countries is causing serious health problems. These can be divided into two categories; the diseases whose transmission depends on water; and the changes in the life style of the population. We review briefly the principal health problems and analyze the principles to be followed in solving them, and the reasons of the success or failure of health programs. Among the topics we consider, are the development versus health, the collaboration of health service personnel with the rest of the personnel participating in water development schemes, the necessity of ensuring a multidisciplinary approach to the solutions of these health problems, the necessity of integration of the public health component within the administrative and budgetary levels and the coordination of public health measures with the development of project from the planning phase through the completion and maintenance phases, the purely medical aspects of the health problems involved appearing as being of secondary importance. Common sense, and the use of simple, cheap methods adapted to the local conditions, and applied focaly, provide better solutions than the sophisticated, more general and expensive approaches. The time and budget accorded for surveys and research, usually excessive, should be limited. It is necessary to adhere to a disciplined use of water. Ambitions and utopian dreams and strategies of disease eradication should, in general, give way to more limited, but accessible objectives, whose attainment would lead to a decrease of the clinical and socioeconomic gravity of the health problems to a "reasonable" level.
The synthesis of a number of ring-halogenated N-isopropyl- and N-tert-butyl-2-amino-1-(2-thienyl)ethanols has been carried out in order to ascertain the influence of chloro or bromo substitution at the thiophene moiety on their blocking beta-adrenoceptor activity. It was found that chloro- and bromo-substituted compounds exhibited a similar activity. Monohalo substitution at positions C4 or C5 of the thiophene ring resulted in comparable blocking potency, whereas C3 halo-substituted compounds were practically devoid of activity. The highest activity in these series was observed with compounds dihalogenated at C4 and C5, their effect on myocardial beta-receptors being comparable to that of propranolol.
The reaction products of peroxidase, a hydrogen donor and hydrogen peroxide decreased the amount of lysine recovered from proteins after acid hydrolysis. Oxidation of peroxidase treated proteins with performic acid prior to hydrolysis formed alpha-amino adipic acid indicating that the peroxidase or the quinones formed by peroxidase had oxidatively deaminated some lysyl residues of the protein to form lysyl aldehyde. Gel filtration and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed dimers, trimers and higher protein polymers that were not detected when peroxidase was omitted. Since some of the protein polymers were not dissociated by gel electrophoresis in the presence of dodecyl sulfate, urea and mercaptoethanol, it suggests that the free radicals or quinones formed by peroxidase had interacted with or cross-linked protein molecules by the formation of covalent bonds. Oxidative enzymes like peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase may lower the nutritive value of proteins by the oxidative deamination of lysine, reaction with cysteine and methionine and by cross-linking protein molecules to reduce their susceptibility to enzymatic hydrolysis.
A mathematical treatment and an original microcalorimetric method are developed to verify an eventual competitive binding between any two substances for the same macromolecule. To apply this method, a competitive binding of L-tryptophan and one benzodiazepin (dipotassium chlorazepate) for human serum albumin is perfectly demonstrated. The association constants and the enthalpy variations are equal to 14 000 +/- 2000 M-1 and --6.6 +/- 0.2 kcal/mol for human serum albumin . tryptophan complex and 13 000 +/- 1000 M-1 and --10.0 +/- 0.2 kcal/mol for human serum albumin . chlorazepate complex. In all cases the stoichiometry is equal to one. The binding of tryptophan to human serum albumin is partially stereospecific; the association constant and the enthalpy variation for D-tryptophan complex are equal, respectively, to 1000 +/- 200 M-1 and --2.6 +/- 0.3 kcal/mol.
Three patients had subacute thyroiditis and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase, presumably related to the thyroiditis. Concomitant elevation of the serum gamma-glutamyl transferase suggested that the alkaline phosphatase was of hepatic origin. The elevation of the serum alkaline phosphatase could not be definitely related to the degree or duration of elevation of the serum thyroxine. The combination of elevated serum alkaline phosphatase with the systemic symptoms of subacute thyroiditis may obscure the diagnosis, especially if patients have little or no neck pain.
The specific activity of alkaline RNase II was l00 to 1800 times higher in mouse pancreas than in mouse liver, serum, ascites fluid, and Ehrlich ascites cell grown intraperitoneally. Ehrlich ascites cells grown in cell culture medium had a much lower alkaline RNase II activity than cells grown intraperitoneally. Chromatography on CM-52 cellulose of acid- and heat-treated preparations showned a considerable heterogeneity of the mouse enzymes. Depending on the source of the extract, two to six forms fo alkaline RNase were eluted. Pancreatic extract contained two RNase forms. These also seemed to be present as minor components in preparations from other sources except Ehrlich ascites cells grown in vitro. Ehrlich ascites cells grown in vivo contained forms of the RNase which were not present in other extracts. Possible reasons for this heterogeneity were investigated. In addition to their stability to acid and heat the different RNase forms were similar in that they were much more active at alkaline pH than at acidic pH, they did not require divalent metal ions for activity, and they degraded RNA 'endonucleolytically.' Also, native DNA, denatured DNA, and poly A were poor substrates compared with RNA. Some differences seemed to exist, however, with respect to their abilities to degrade poly U and poly C and their sensitivities to the endogenous RNase inhibitor.
Gamma-GT, which appears as a sensitive indicator in the enzyme pattern during postoperative examination, is especially recommended (besides the GOT and GPT enzymes) in detecting and watching the course of hepatocellular lesions. Distinction between parenchymatous and obstructive icterus can in some cases be made at an early stage by comparison with AP. Distinction between increases in biliary and ossal AP activity is possible with the help of Gamma-GT. Where liver metastases are suspected clinically, increased Gamma-GT activity makes metastization into the liver appear likely.
Sleep disturbance was studied in relation to psychiatric and physical symptoms for 214 male psychiatric outpatients and 248 male nonpatients. Our self-report instrument required that subjects describe the frequency of symptoms precisely on a five-point scale from "every day" to "not at all." Percentages are based on the numbers of subjects reporting a symptom as occurring "every day" or "several times a week." More patients reported sleep disturbance symptoms (75%) than nonpatients (25%) (P less than 0.001). Sleep loss symptoms were reported by 63% of patients and 20% of nonpatients. Twelve percent of patients and 6% of nonpatients reported trouble with excessive sleep problems. Sleep disturbance was not strongly related to specific diagnoses. Fewer schizophrenics (21%) than other patients (50%) reported trouble "falling asleep" (P less than 0.02). Finally, for both patients and controls, disturbed sleepers reported more psychiatric and physical symptoms than undisturbed sleepers (P less than 0.001). It is suggested that sleep disturbance might be a useful clinical clue to previously unsuspected psychiatric and physical illness.
1. The rate of volume flow across frog skin induced by an osmotic gradient was measured when normal (7.4) and low pH (2.28) solutions bathed the outside. The osmotic permeabilities (Pos) were 2.4 +/- 0.4 and 4.8 +/- 1.0 micrometer/sec, respectively. The change in Pos induced by low pH was reversible. 2. Volume flow in the absence of an osmotic gradient was measured at normal and low pH. Values were 0.69 +/- 0.13 and 1.1 +/- 0.2 microliter/hr. cm2, respectively; the paired differences were significant (P less than 0.0025). This change in rate was partially reversible upon return to normal pH. 3. The potential difference (V) and short-circuit current (Is) across skins were measured under several conditions and the following equivalent parameters in a simplified electrical model were computed: total resistance (Rt); shunt resistance (Rs); electromotive force of the pump (ENa); and salt transport at open circuit (JNaCl). Representative figures were (a), at pH 7.4: Is = 14 +/- 1.6 microampere/cm2; Rt = 3.3 +/- 0.4 komega.cm2; Rs = 7.2 +/- 1.0 komega.cm2; ENA = 103 +/- 38 mV; JNaCl = 7.2 +/- 1.2 microampere/cm2; (b) at pH 2.28: Is = 8.3 +/- 2.1 microampere/cm2; Rt = 0.46 +/- 0.12 komega. cm2; Rs = 0.65 +/- 0.06 komega.cm2; ENa = 59 +/- 25 mV; JNaCl = 9.4 +/- 3.3 microampere/cm2. 4. From the electrical parameters measured concomitantly with the rate of fluid transport in given experiments, the expected salt concentration of the transported fluid was 0.30 +/- 0.08 and 0.38 +/- 0.08 mole/l. at normal and low pH, respectively, or some 3-4 times hyperosmotic with respect to the medium. 5. Treatment with low pH on the outside has been found to open the intercellular junctions in previous studies. The present results suggest that, if such an effect occurs, it is localized only to a small fraction of the cell perimeter. Making certain assumptions that fraction could be as low as 0.003. 6. Low pH on the outside reversibly changes the electrical parameters of a 'tight' epithelium like the frog skin into values more typical of 'intermediate' epithelia; both the total and shunt resistances decrease to about 0.1 of their normal values. These changes do not apparently affect the osmolarity of the transported fluid.
Unacclimated pigeons were exposed to various simulated altitudes. Arterial and mixed venous blood gas levels were measured. At the highest altitude 9150m (Pb = 235 mm Hg) a remarkable degree of alkalosis was tolerated for several hours without ill effecrtant factor in the bird's ability to survive such altitudes.
In a follow-up study of 48 young men who had been surgically treated for cryptorchidism before puberty testicular function was assessed by examining the genitalia, testicular volume, secondary sex characteristics, semen, plasma luteinising hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) concentrations after luteinising hormone-releasing hormone stimulation, and plasma testosterone concentrations. Clinical androgen effects were normal. The mean testicular volume of both testes was in the low normal range in those who had had unilateral cryptorchidism and below normal in those who had had bilateral cryptorchidism. Of 37 patients whose sperm counts were recorded (14 bilateral) six showed azoospermia (all bilateral), five had severe oligospermia (four bilateral), and 10 had moderate oligospermia (one bilateral). In nearly all those who had had bilateral cryptorchidism and most of those who had had unilateral cryptorchidism plasma gonadotrophin levels were increased. Four cases of possible partial LH deficiency were identified. Plasma testosterone concentrations were normal in all except two patients.
The effect of age and thyroid hormones upon the ability of chick heart homogenates to metabolize monoamines has been investigated. 5-Hydroxytryptamine is entirely metabolized by a monoamine oxidase (MAO) with the characteristics of MAO-A, whereas some of the tyramine and all of the benzylamine are oxidatively deaminated by a clorgyline-resistant, but semicarbazide-sensitive enzyme, with a similar subcellular distribution to that of MAO. The remainder of the tyramine deamination is brought about by MAO-A and MAO-B. The specific activities of both clorgyline-sensitive and resistant enzymes are increased by the same proportion by increase in age or by treatment with (--)-thyroxine, and decreased by 2-thiouracil. The significance of these results is discussed.
Bupivacaine (Marcaine) is being used increasingly in obstetrics for epidural analgesia, by virtue of the good sensory block obtained and the minimum of side-effects on the mother and newborn infant. At a concentration of less than 0.5 p. 100, analgesia is excellent with a minimal effect on motor fibres. Side-effects and toxicity are limited by the use of fractionated doses from the beginning of labour or of a single dose during or at the end of labour calculated in relation to the effect sought. Any action on the newborn infant would appear to be exceptional, if dose recommendations are respected, the high percentage of Marcaine bound to proteins limiting its transplacental passage.
The intact heart of a young rat was excised rapidly and cooled to 0 degree C; its energy-rich compounds were examined by 31P Fourier Transform nuclear magnetic resonance. The heart showed the characteristic spectrum of sugar phosphates, inorganic phosphate, phosphocreatine, and magniesium phates, inorganic phosphate, phosphocreatine, and magnesium ATP, characteristics of the energizing state of the nonbeating tissue. Warming to 30 degrees C imposes an energy load upon the heart consistent with short-term resumption of beating, concomitant intracellular acidosis, and decomposition of all detectable energy-rich compounds. The intracellular acidity causes a shift from pH 7.0 to 6.0. The effects of possible interferences with this pH measurement are considered. The method appears to have wide usefulness in cardiac infarct models for detecting the fraction of the total volume occupied by the infarct and for studying the effect of various proposed therapies upon this infarcted volume.
Cimetidine, a new histamine H2-receptor antagonist (50 or 100 mg/kg) and atropine sulfate (15 mg/kg) given intraduodenally, markedly inhibited gastric secretion in pylorus-ligated rats. Cimetidine (100 or 200 mg/kg/day) given for 10 or 12 consecutive days orally in two divided doses, significantly promoted the healing rate of both gastric and duodenal ulcers induced in rats. Atropine (30 mg/kg/day) also significantly accelerated the healing of duodenal ulcers but failed to affect gastric ulcers.
Rats were trained to bar-press in order to obtain electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle through chronically implanted electrodes. Dose-response and time-effect curves were determined for morphine (1.0-30 mg/kg), levorphanol (0.1 to 3.0 mg/kg), methadone (0.1-3.0 mg/kg), meperidine (1.0-30 mg/kg), oxymorphone (0.03-1.0 mg/kg), and d-amphetamine (0.1-3.0 mg/kg). Dose-response and time-effect curves were also determined for morphine (1.0-30 mg/kg) in rats that had received multiple injections of morphine over a period of 3 days. All of the narcotic analgesics produced dose-related decreases in responding; the durations of these decreases were also dose-related. The relative potencies of the five narcotic analgesics with respect to the rate-decreasing effects for selt-stimulation responding were: oxymorphone greater than levorphanol greater than methadone greater than morphine greater than meperidine. In morphine-tolerant rats the rate-decreasing effects of morphine on responding for selt-stimulation were attenuated. These findings suggest that narcotic analgesics from diverse chemical families have a similar, predominantly depressant, effect on self-stimulation behavior and that the relative potencies of a series of narcotics for this effect are similar to those demonstrated for other properties of these drugs.
A pure contraction alkalosis with no urinary loss of bicarbonate was evidenced in awaken rat, after a Furosemide IV injection. We observed: 1) an early and important respiratory compensation possibly owing to a simultaneous contraction of CSF volume, thus increasing bicarbonate concentration. 2) a net shift of HCO3- towards intracellular compartment, in proportion to the magnitude of the contraction rather than to bicarbonate gradient across the membrane.
Rennet whey protein concentrates have excellent nutritional properties, but their use in fluid food systems is impaired by the poor heat stability of the protein. Heating whey protein concentrated solutions at neutral pH caused up to 70% losses in solubility. In the absence of added calcium, protein coagulation occurred. near the iso-electric zone whereas in the presence of .03 M calcium chloride, similar protein coagulation occurred in the whole pH range (pH 2 to pH 12). Tryptic hydrolysis of the protein increased the heat stability of whey protein concentrates considerably.
A vesicular microsomal fraction isolated from hog fundic mucosa demonstrates the capacity to take up equal amounts of RB+ and Cl-. The amount of the Rb+ uptake is sensitive to the extravesicular osmolarity, and rate of uptake is sensitive to temperature. 86Rb+ efflux is dependent upon the cation composition of the diluting solution. ATP, but not beta-gamma methylene ATP, induces a reversible efflux of 86Rb+ from loaded vesicles, and this is dependent upon a functional K+-ATPase. The ATP induced efflux is not affected by CCCP (carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone) or TCS (tetrachlorosalicylanilide) nor by lipid soluble ions or valinomycin. Nigericin inhibits the efflux by 40%. Uptake of the lipid soluble ion 14C-SCN- has been demonstrated and is enhanced by ATP only in the presence of valinomycin. The results are consistent with a neutral or isopotential exchange of H+ for Rb+ mediated by K+-ATPase.
B1-anti-B2 and B2-anti-B1 allo-antisera were raised by i.v. immunization of homozygous B1/1 and B2/2 chickens, respectively, with B1/2 cells of the following sources: peripheral blood leucocytes (PBL), erythrocytes, thymus cells and bursa cells. Purified suspensions of these all produced anti-B allo-antibodies which could both haemagglutinate red blood cells and strongly inhibit the GVH reactivity of blood lymphocytes of the original donor type. Absorption studies of the sera using cells of the same four sources showed that they could all completely remove the GVH inhibitory antibodies. A fact of particular importance is that B-haplotype determined antigens which are common to erythrocytes and lymphocytes seem to include the gene products of the allo-aggression locus, as earlier defined (Simonsen 1975).
A sphingomyelinase was purified 980-fold with recovery of 25.6% from the culture broth of Bacillus cereus, by (NH4)2SO4 precipitation and chromatography on CM-Sephadex, DEAE-cellulose and Sephadex G-75. The purified preparation was free of lipase, protease and other phospholipases. The enzyme specifically hydrolyzed sphingomyelin to ceramide and phosphorylcholine. Lysophosphatidylcholine was also attacked by the enzyme. The enzyme (Mr = 24 000) was maximally active at pH 6-7. Other properties of the enzyme, including hemolytic activity and activation/inhibition studies, are reported.
A definition of concommitant depression is given. The results of infusorial therapy of Dibenzepin in 53 patients with neurological diseases and concommitant depression are reported. In 86% of all cases good or very good results could be obtained. The preparation is excellently suited for this therapy. The necessity of double therapy, namely the therapy of the basic disease as well as the therapy of the depressive syndrome is stressed.
The in vitro synthesizing activity of uninfected and polyoma virus-infected mouse embryo (ME) cells was investigated by measuring the incorporation of 3H-thymidine (dTR) into acidinsoluble material in cell-free extracts. The character of the enzyme reaction was described in uninfected cells and an activating effect of 0.01 M dithiothreitol (DTT) was observed. A variation of the enzyme activity in the course of cultivation of ME cells in primary culture was demonstrated. The induction of the DNA synthesizing activity due to polyoma virus infection was markedly increased in the presence of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BUDR), what emphasizes the importance of the de novo synthesized viral and/or cellular DNA in the regulation of induction enzymes participating in DNA synthesis.
1. Homogeneous preparations of resealed ghosts with intracellular KCl concentrations between 15 and 900 mM could be prepared. Virtually all ghosts sealed to chloride. The chloride transport system was found not to be damaged: a quantitative comparison of the self-exchange of 36Cl- across intact and resealed membranes showed that both the transport capacity and a number of characteristic properties were identical (saturation kinetics, temperature dependence and the effect of inhibitors). 2. Due to the absence of intracellular titratable buffers intracellular chloride concentration in ghosts vary only slightly between pH5 and 11. The unidirectional exchange flux was constant between pH 7 and 11, showing that the transport system does not have a functionally important titratable group in the alkaline range, as previously assumed. The decrease of transport below pH 7 is similar in intact erythrocytes and ghosts. 3. Mean cellular volume of the resealed ghosts was a function of the amount of KCl added at 'reversal', before the ghosts are sealed. The ghosts shrank by osmosis when KCl was added to the suspension of 'unsealed' ghosts. The reflexion coefficient of sucrose (and therefore the osmotic effect) is larger than that of KCl. It was, therefore, possible to demonstrate that volume changes do not affect the chloride transport across the human red cell membrane. Unidirectional chloride fluxes at a KCl concentration of 165 mM were independent of ghost volume (100-40 mum3).
Nineteen men, aged 41-64 years, with stable angina pectoris have completed a random double-blind study of atenolol, 50 mg b.i.d., atenolol, 100 mg b.i.d., and placebo. Fifteen patients had subjective improvement on atenolol, two were unchanged and two felt worse (because of asthenia/leg fatigue). No significant placebo effect was found. On both atenolol dosages there were highly significant reductions in heart rate at rest and during exercise and in BP. Only the maximal heart rate decreased significantly more on 100 mg atenolol than on 50 mg (p less than 0.01). Fourteen patients had the same or a better physical performance on the 50 mg b.i.d. regimen than on the 100 mg b.i.d. regimen, although this difference was not significant. Sixteen patients had higher bicycle exercise performance on atenolol than on placebo. Disregarding the three non-responders, a mean increase of 44% in bicycle performance was found. No serious side-effects were seen. Most individuals reported an increased feeling of well-being on atenolol.
Intermediate lobes from Rana esculenta pituitary glands were continuously superfused for 7 hrs at 28 degrees C with amphibian culture medium. alpha-MSH release was measured by use of a sensitive double antibody radio-immunoassay system. alpha-MSH secretion was inhibited by low temperatures. A large increase in alpha-MSH release was observed when Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone (TRH) at doses ranging from 10(-9) to 10(-7) molar was added to the superfusion medium. Since large amounts of TRH are to be found in the hypothalamus of amphibians but have no effect over pituitary TSH secretion, the action of TRH over alpha-MSH release may have a physiological significance.
In a search for new selective bronchodilators, three 2-pyridylethanolamines, i.e., 2-tert-butylamino-1-(5-hydroxy-2-pyridyl)ethanol (2b), a related 6-methylsulfonylmethyl (2c), and, a 6-methyl (2d) derivative, were prepared. These compounds were examined for potential bronchodilator activity in an in vitro test for relaxation of guinea pig tracheal tissue. Potential cardiac stimulant activity was evaluated in vitro by measuring changes in the rate of spontaneously beating guinea pig right atrial muscle. Comparison of potency in the tracheal test relative to that in the atrial procedure provides a measure of selectivity. Results of this study indicate that replacement of the phenyl ring of a para-hydroxylated phenylethanolamine with a 2-pyridyl system generally results in compounds which retain a high order of potency in the tracheal test; however, selectivity for tracheobronchial vs. cardiac tissue is markedly greater for the pyridyl derivatives. The alpha-picoline, 2-tert-butylamino-1-(5-hydroxy-6-methyl-2-pyridyl) ethanol (2d), which bears labile protons at a position meta to the ethanolamine side chain, was about equipotent with the corresponding 6-unsubstituted relative 2b. The reason for the failure of these apparently appropriately located labile protons to enhance beta-adrenoreceptor agonist activity is uncertain.
A rapid change in length of cat papillary muscle induces two reciprocal diastolic and systolic processes: stretching causes a viscoelastic relaxation of the muscle. The opposite behavior is observed after abrupt releases when - subsequent to an increase in resting tension - diastolic force attains its new equilibrium. The stretch-induced process of relaxation is accompanied by a transient decrease in mechanogram amplitudes; a release is accordingly followed by a temporary increase in isometric muscle performance. The mechanograms of the steady state prove to be the function of the degree of stretch or release, whereas muscle contractions in the early phase of stress relaxation depend on the contractile state before the change in length. All interventions which augment developed tension (increased calcium, decreased potassium, increased or decreased sodium concentrations, strontium, postextrasystolic potentiation, sympathicomimetic agents, frequency potentiation) diminish the transient phenomena due to stretch, whereas low frequency or a lesser intensity of electromechanical coupling (Hexobarbital, Iproveratril, Desoxycorticosteron, Ryanodine) increases them. A decrease of bath temperature enhances the transient increase in force due to a release or an initial reduction of isometric tension after a sudden stretch, although the absolute forces increase. No substantial changes could be observed in reserpinized cats with beta-blocking agents or under hypoxia. It is supposed that alterations in the time course of the action potential could be related to post-stretch and post-release systolic phenomena. A final interpretation of mechanical and electrical events after stretch and release is not possible with the methods used in these experiments.
A method is described for particle sizing of pressurized metered suspension aerosols by collection in a settling drum followed by microscopic evaluation of the slides with a Quantimet 720 automatic image analyser. The method gives satisfactory representation of the distribution of particles settling to the drum base, and demonstrates the excellent stability and reproducibility between and within aerosol packs for two widely used inhalation products. There is much drug deposition of somewhat finer size distribution on the wall of the drum than on the drum base. In spite of this wall loss, the method gives only slightly higher results for the weight and number mean diameters, than when both wall and base distributions are considered. The Quantimet was found to be suitable for particle sizing salbutamol used in preparing aerosol products.
The crystal structure of oxidized cytochrome c from tuna hearts has been solved by x-ray diffraction to a resolution of 2.0 A, using four isomorphous heavy atom derivatives. The crystals, space group P43, have 2 independent cytochrome molecules in the asymmetric repeating unit. No significant difference is seen between these 2 molecules, aside from conformations of a few surface side chains. The molecular folding observed is essentially that reported for tuna ferrocytochrome c. In particular, the ring of phenylalanine 83 lies against the heme group and closes the heme crevice, and is not swung out into the surroundings as had been believed from the 2.8 A horse ferricytochrome c structure.
Withdrawal symptoms frequently follow abrupt discontinuation of antipsychotic compounds. In addition to other somatic symptoms, withdrawal-emergent dyskinesias may be observed. "Covert dyskinesia" refers to a masked form of tardive dyskinesia that becomes clinically detectable only after antipsychotic drugs are withdrawn or their dosage is reduced. Withdrawal dyskinesia appears under similar circumstances but disappears spontaneously in 6 to 12 weeks. Cholinergic overactivity and changes in dopamine-acetylcholine balance in the basal ganglia may underlie these withdrawal syndromes. The principal value of the concept of covert dyskinesia is in the secondary and tertiary prevention of tardive dyskinesia through early discovery and treatment.
The literature on glycide-induced lipidogenesis is reviewed. This is an important question also because of its relation to the pathogenesis of pathological conditions such as ketoacidosis, obesity and hypertriglyceridaemia. Doubt is expressed concerning the interpretation of some experimental procedures used in determining the extent of lipidogenesis in man. The questions raised are fully discussed. Their solution is sought via an experiment on the rat involving the comparison of tissue and plasma lipid metabolites values following infusion of a labelled glucose bolus. Little correlation was noted, low plasma levels being found with high tissue radioactivity. It is emphasized that it is very difficult to ideate a valid experimental approach in order to investigate the extent of lipidogenesis in man in vivo: in this respect, the long term risk arising from the use of tracers with a very long half-life (e.g. 14C) in man must be carefully valuated.
The bacteriolytic effect of beta-lactam antibiotics on Bacillus subtilis and on Streptococcus pneumoniae was found to be a function of the pH; lysis was suppressed if the pH of the pneumococcal culture was below 6.0 during penicillin treatment. In the case of B. subtilis, growth at pH 6.6 prevented penicillin-induced lysis. In pneumococci, the addition of trypsin to the growth medium also protected against lysis. The pH-dependent protection phenomenon resembled in several respects the antibiotic "tolerance" of pneumococci with a defective autolytic system. (i) At the pH nonpermissive for lysis, the bacteria retained their normal sensitivity to beta-lactam and to other cell wall inhibitors; however, instead of lysis, the drug-treated bacteria simply stopped growing. Loss of viability of the cells was also greatly reduced. (ii) Protection against lysis was independent of the dose and chemical nature of the cell wall inhibitors. (iii) The protection effect was reversible; lysis and loss of viability could be triggered by a postincubation of the drug-treated bacteria at the pH permissive for lysis.
A gas chromatography--mass fragmentography--electron impact (GC-MS-EI) assay of phencyclidine (PCP) was adapted for human plasma and urine. This assay is specific for PCP and very sensitive (approximately 1 ng/ml). Patients with the putative diagnosis of PCP overdosage were studied to correlate plasma and urinary levels with clinical state. Urinary PCP levels were enhanced in an acid urine, which suggests that acidification of the urine is an adjunct in the therapy of PCP overdosage.
Secondary cultures of embryonic rat fibroblasts incubated in Eagle medium with Hepes buffer at pH 6.6 and 7.4 were maintained in hypoxia of 1% O2 for 48 hours. The acid mucopolysaccharides were isolated from medium plus cells and fractionated on cellulose microcolumns according to SVEJCAR and ROBERTSON (1967). Glucose utilization, lactate production, quantity of total MPS and changes in the MPS distribution pattern were correlated with cell density.
Changes in the energy metabolism of washed human platelets were compared with the kinetics of secretion induced by thrombin (5 units/ml). A 50% decrease in the level of metabolic ATP (3H-labelled), which was essentially complete in 30s, was matched in rate by adenine nucleotide secretion from storage in dense granules. Incubation of platelets with antimycin before thrombin addition increased the rate of fall in metabolic ATP, but did not affect the rate of adenine nucleotide secretion. beta-N-Acetylglucosaminidase secretion, which was slower than adenine nucleotide secretion in control platelets, was noticeably inhibited by antimycin, confirming previous reports that different regulatory mechanisms exist for dense and alpha-granule secretion. The rates of rephosphorylation of metabolic ADP to ATP via glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation were estimated by measuring lactate production and O2 consumption in resting and thrombin-stimulated platelets and compared to the level of metabolic ATP (9-10 nmol/mg of platelet protein in the resting state). The rate of ATP production was stimulated at least two fold from 12 nmol to 24 nmol/min/mg within seconds of thrombin addition. This increased rate was maintained over the observed period of 5 min although the level of metabolic ATP had decreased to 4-5 nmol/mg within 30 s; the turnover of the remaining metabolic ATP thus increased four fold over the resting state although the actual stimulation of energy production was only two fold.
The assembly of tobacco mosaic virus requires the presence of a particular protein aggregate, the disk. During the nucleation, a specific region of the RNA interacts with a single disk, to bring about a necessarily cooperative transition from the paired two-layer structure to a short segment of nucleo-protein helix. There is a high selectivity for this region of the TMV RNA, because of the many nucleotides bound at once, and other nucleotide sequences appear only to bind by a different mechanism. Elongation of the nucleated rods can continue with either further disks or the less aggregated 'A-protein' as the protein source, but the continued cooperativity inherent with disks would have some advantages. The rates of the two processes have been separately determined and growth is faster when disks are still present. New experiments show that the breakdown of disks to yield A-protein is relatively slow and it is concluded that virus growth from disks could not proceed through a prior breakdown in solution, but must involve the direct interaction of the disk with the growing nucleoprotein rod. The detailed mechanism of disk addition is not understood but it may involve a directed breakdown, since there is also evidence for the existence of a non-equilibrium form of A-protein which has aggregation kinetics distinct from those of equilibrium A-protein. Some implications for the general assembly pathways of viruses both of the specificity and of the assembly/disassembly cycle during the viral infection are considered.
Conditions for the production of the trypsin inhibitor from Cephalosporium sp. KM 388 were investigated. Polypeptone-meat extract-glucose medium supported excellent production of the trypsin inhibitor. In this medium, polypeptone and meat extract were utilized both as carbon and nitrogen sources and as limiting substrates for the cell growth. Glucose was consumed during the stationary growth phase and prevented the disappearance of inhibitor activity. Cephalosporium sp. KM 388 grew at a rate of a first-order reaction for the cell concentrations. Trypsin inhibitor production paralleled cell growth. At 27 degrees C the maximum specific rates of growth and inhibitor production were 0.14 h-1 and 2.1 U of inhibitor/h per mg of cell, respectively. The production rate and the maximum yield of the inhibitor were increased 1.5- and 1.2-fold, respectively, when the initial pH 6.3 was maintained throughout the fermentation.
Rabbit and guinea pig sera and their immunoglobulin fractions (IgM and IgG) were examined by complement-fixation (CF), microagglutination (MA), opsonization-phagocytosis (OP) and serum protection (SP) tests at intervals after immunization with live phase I and phase II Coxiella burnetii suspensions. In general, MA antibodies, but also decreased, earlier than CF antibodies. The anamnestic immune response was higher with lower primary doses. Both phase II and phase I CF and MA antibodies as well as phase I opsonins and protective antibodies were found in either immunoglobulin fraction depending on post-immunization intervals. At later intervals and especially after the second immunizing dose the levels of protective antibodies in whole sera, but mainly in the IgG fractions, showed a better agreement with those of phase I opsonins rather than of phase I CF and MA antibodies.
A primary melanoma of the small intestine is reported. A possible explanation of its origin according to the APUD cell concept is suggested. This concept may lessen the doubts and confusion whenever an intestinal melanoma is discovered and a primary tumor at one of the more common sites can reasonably be excluded.
The effects of induced hypo- and hypercapnia upon the rate of hydroxylation of tryptophan and tyrosine in the rat brain were studied by measuring the accumulation of 5-HTP and DOPA following administration of the aromatic L-aminoacid decarboxylase inhibitor 3-hydroxybenzylhydrazine HCl (NSD 1015). The results suggest that the hydroxylation of tryptophan varies directly with the tissue Po2. On the other hand, the hydroxylation of tyrosine did not show a simple relationship to Po2 but appeared to be influenced by pH changes.
Marver & Gurney ((1968)Ann.N.Y.Acad.Sci. 149, 570-575) reported that the erythropoietin excretion in two anaemic patients increased 17 and 3.5-fold, respectively, during the production of alkaline urine by the administration of NaHCO3. We have studied the excretion of erythropoietin in 6 persons, following the daily administration of 3.5 g of NH4Cl, which resulted in an average urine pH of 5.9; and following the administration of hexapotassium hexasodium pentacitrate, which increased the urine pH TO 7.5. In the alkaline urine, erythropoietin excretion showed an average, but non-significant, two-fold increase. The increase was significant in only two experimental persons.
The alveolar wall on contact with air can be compared with a biological air-liquide interface. As with all interfaces, there are therefore superficial forces which tend to reduce the surface to a minimum. In the case of a pulmonary alveolus with a spherical surface, these forces are at the origin of an internal pressure excess dependent on the radius of the alveolus and on the superficial tension related to the nature of the interface. Owing to the disparity in the alveolar radii, under these conditions the smaller alveoli would collapse to the benefit of a larger one, the pressure being lower and lower in the latter. In addition, at any time in the respiratory cycles, this surpression must be negligible in order to avoid rupture of the equilibrium of the forces exerted on the alveolar wall. Consequently, it is necessary that this air-alveolar wall interface should have a superficial tension on the one hand variable with the surface, and on the other hand always very low. Owing to the demonstration of large concentrations of phospholipid in this area, it can be thought that a superficial film is substituted at the air-biological liquid interface and owing to this fact effectively has superficial properties necessary for alveolar stability. The "surface-tensio-active" effect of this film lead to the giving of the name of "surfactant" to these constituents as a whole.
Difficulties in the treatment of acute hepatic failure due to insufficient knowledge of the pathogenesis and the impredectability of the course has made an experimental model desirable. A number of such models have been proposed, among these hepatectomy and total hepatic devascularization. In the present study hepatectomy and total hepatic devascularization have been compared, as it has been doubted if hepatectomy, not including necrotic liver tissue, is a valid model of human hepatic failure. No significant difference was found in the survival time which was 16 h 2 min +/- 57 min in the anhepatic and 18 h 33 min +/- 1 h 5 min in the devascularized preparation. The blood pressure of the anhepatic preparation decreased gradually, in contrast that of the devascularized preparation remained stable during most of the experimental period with a terminal steep decrease. Except for an increase in serum alanin-aminotransferases and free hemoglobin, seen in the devascularized, but not in the anhepatic preparation, no differences between the two models were seen. It is concluded that the presence of necrotic tissue is of minor importance, but for technical reasons the devascularized preparation is the most suitable model for experimental hepatic failure.
Adult Swiss albino mice were immunized intravenously with flaviviviruses. Cellular immune response was studied by macrophage migration inhibition assay. Migration of cells from sensitized mice was significantly inhibited in the presence of homologous virus or antigen. Migration inhibition was also significant with serologically related viruses, thus establishing cross reaction in cellular immune response.
A mitomycin C induced lysate of Clostridium perfringens strain KZ219 was lytic to 50 strains of C. perfringens of types A-E, and three strains of C. plagarum. The lysin was active against only 2 out of 87 strains of 51 other clostridial species. The optimum pH of the lytic agent was 5.5. The activity was largely inactivated by proteolytic enzymes, and nearly completely inactivated by heating at 60 degrees C for 5 min.
Various receptor-linked cyclic AMP systems were measured in rat neostriatum 2--14 days after selective destruction of neuronal cell bodies and dendrites by micro-injection of 3 microgram of kainic acid. Basal adenylate cyclase activity was reduced by up to 56% in the injected side and the sensitivity to dopamine was abolished. Up to 84% of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity, hydrolyzing either cyclic AMP or cyclic GMP, was destroyed by kainic acid injection. Specific binding of [3H]etorphine and [3H]spiroperidol was reduced by up to 62% in the injected side, while non-specific binding was unchanged. All of these changes were time-dependent, and were greatest 7--14 days after kainic acid treatment. On the other hand, intrastriatal kainic acid injection caused no change in the steady-state concentration of cyclic AMP in striatal slices, or in the in vivo cyclic AMP content in the striatum of rats killed by microwave irradiation. Receptor-mediated increases in cyclic AMP accumulation in striatal slices were either unchanged or markedly potentiated by kainic acid treatment. The maximum response to adenosine was unchanged, while the response to isoprenaline was increased up to 3.7-fold, the response to dopamine increased up to 6.7-fold, and the response to PGE1 increased up to 30-fold. The effect of dopamine in kainic acid-treated striatal slices was no longer blocked by fluphenazine, but was blocked by propranolol, suggesting an interaction of dopamine with a beta-adrenoceptor in kainic acid-treated slices. The results suggest differential cellular localizations of the various receptor-linked cyclic AMP systems in rat neostriatum. Some dopamine and opiate receptors, as well as most of the phosphodiesterase activity, are associated with local neuronal elements, while beta-adrenoceptor, adenosine and PGE1 alterations in cyclic AMP are not. The potentiation of the beta-adrenoceptor and PGE1 responses suggests that they may occur in glial cells. In addition, the pool of adenylate cyclase destroyed by kainic acid appears to make little contribution to normal levels of cyclic AMP in the tissue.
A clinical study was carried out to evaluate the usefulness of intravenous lorazepam, given for sedation instead of opiate narcotics or diazepam, in 25 seriously-ill patients being treated in a respiratory and intensive care unit. All but 3 patients were on assisted ventilation. Standard doses of 4 mg lorazepam were given at 4 or 6-hourly intervals for periods up to 25 days. ECG, haemodynamic stability and biological determinations were monitored constantly. Apart from some delay in onset of action, lorazepam proved to be a useful sedative with diminished recall on the part of the patients. No side-effects were reported, nor was there any local reaction to the injection. Cardiac output was measured in 9 patients following intravenous administration of a single-dose of either 4 mg or 8 mg lorazepam. No significant changes were recorded.
In studies on Li+ net-transport across the human red cell membrane following results were obtained: 1. In K+- and Na+-free choline chloride media, Li+ is transported into the erythrocytes against an electrochemical gradient. This Li+ uphill transport as well as Li+ downhill transport into the cells is inhibited by ouabain, ATP-depletion, and by external K+ and Na+. The effects of K+ and Na+ are relieved at high Li+ concentrations. 2. Ouabain-sensitive Li+ uptake, determined at 10 mM external Na+, does not obey simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics and exhibits a maximum at about pH 7. 3. Ouabain-resistant Li+ downhill transport into erythrocytes increases with rising pH. It is comprised of a saturating component and a component linearly dependent on external Li+. The linear component is partly inhibited by dipyridamole and accelerated by bicarbonate. The bicarbonate effect can be completely blocked by dipyridamole, phlorizin and phenylbutazone. 4. Li+ release is not inhibited by ouabain, ATP-depletion and external K+. It increases with external Na+ concentration, tending to saturate at 150 mM Na+. Na+-independent Li+ release is stimulated by bicarbonate. It is concluded that ouabain-sensitive Li+ uptake is mediated at the K+-site(s) of the Na+-K+ pump. Li+, K+ and Na+ appear to compete for a common site (or sites). The stimulation of Li+ transfer by bicarbonate and the inhibition by dipyridamole suggest a participation of anionic species in ouabain-resistant Li+ transfer. The Na+-dependent Li+ release and the "saturating component" of Li+ uptake are ascribed to the Na+-dependent Li+ countertransport system.
A transglutaminase from human hair follicle-free epidermis was purified to homogeneity using gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. The enzyme had an apparent Mr = 51,000 +/- 2,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis, 100,000 +/- 5,000 by discontinuous gel electrophoresis, and 50,000 +/- 2,000 by gel filtration in Bio-Gel A-0.5m agarose. The enzyme cross-linked Factor XIII-free fibrinogen forming gamma dimers and alpha polymers. Either calcium or strontium was necessary for enzyme activity. In the presence of calcium, enzyme activity was increased by heating at 56 degrees or by treating with dimethylsulfoxide. Activation required calcium and occurred in the presence of serine protease inhibitors. The activated and native enzyme had apparently identical mobilities in acrylamide disc electrophoresis and sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis. The Km values for two substrates in the reaction, casein and putrescine, were very similar for the native and the activated enzyme. The activated enzyme had a larger elution volume on Bio-Gel A-0.5m in the presence of calcium than did the native enzyme. The detailed mechanism of activation remains to be determined.
The increased incidence during the last years of viral hepatitis demands a new approach to the various eventual possibilities of contamination. The author discusses the transmission of serum hepatitis by mosquitoes, especially in warm climates, and the recent results obtained in investigations on the mechanical or biological transmission by haematophage arthropods.
The H+ ion secretion in the proximal tubule as revealed by the reabsorption of the glycodiazine buffer vanishes when the ambient solutions are sodium-free. The same holds for other Na+-dependent transport processes such as Ca++, phosphate, glucose and amino acid reabsorption. If Na+ transport is blocked by ouabain the latter transport processes are abolished, the secretion of H+ ions, however, remains unchanged suggesting H+ to be not exclusively driven by active Na+ transport. These observations agree with electrical measurements which show an electrogenic component of H+ secretion to exist in rat proximal tubule. In experiments with isolated membrane vesicles an electroneutral Na+/H+-exchange mechanism could be demonstrated in the brush border membrane and an ATP-driven Ca++ pumpt as well as Na+-Ca++ countertransport in the baso-lateral cell membrane. These data suggest that both, the Na+ gradient and ATP, are used to drive H+ ion secretion across the luminal brush border and Ca++ reabsorption across the baso-lateral cell side. The biochemical nature of the various systems and their relative importance for the transepithelial ion movement remain to be elucidated.
The authors performed 958 operations on spastic patients. Based on this clinical material, they introduce the possibilities and principles of operative treatment. Position of joints in the lower limb, their synergism and compensatory changes in a closed kinetic chain are analysed in the article. These factors must be attended to carefully if one should decide the site and variety of operation to be performed. The authors suggest that patients should be operated on early, in certain cases even preventive operation is necessary. Results are better if children who already can stand and walk are operated on, but in many cases operation itself is needed to enable them to these activities. Results were good in 83,2%, no changes in 3,4%, worse in 4,2 out of the 716 operations evaluated. Operative treatment along with conductive pedagogy and other methods of physiotherapy help these patients to be able to take care of themselves and to become useful members of society.
Different benzodiazepines, when administered to fasting cats, increased both the total amount of food eaten and also the rate at which food was ingested. Moreover, when injected to foodsatiated cats, these compounds made them resume eating voraciously. Pentobarbital also stimulated food intake, but was much less potent than the benzodiazepines tested.
1. Two different families with a different type of fucosidase deficiency are described. 2. In the first family the activity of alpha-L-fucosidase in leucocytes of two patients with fucosidosis type I was about 4 to 8% of the normal value. The activity of alpha-L-fucosidase in the leucocytes of the father and the mother are in the heterozygote range, while a sister of the propositus showed normal values. 3. The activity of alpha-L-fucosidase of the propositus from urine, serum and liver were also severely decreased. The activity of alpha-L-fucosidase in the urine of the parents and the healthy sister of thr propositus were about 5% of the mean normal value. However in the serum these values were above 50%. 4. The KM value for alpha-L-fucosidase from leucocytes of the patient was increased about 10 times and in serum this value was even higher. The KM values from the enzyme of the parents were in the normal range. 5. The abnormal enzyme from the propositus is unique in its thermal behaviour since after heating its activity increased. 6. In the second fanily the activity of alpha-L-fucosidase in the leucocytes of the patient is about 30% of the mean normal value, while the arylsulphatase A activity is also decreased (25% of the mean normal value). 7. The activity of alpha-L-fucosidase from the leucocytes of the father and the healthy brother are about 50% of the mean normal level, while the enzyme of the mother showed a normal activity. 8. The alpha-L-fucosidase activity in the urine and the liver of the propositus is also decreased. The serum enzyme activity however was in the normal range. 9. The KM value of alpha-L-fucosidase and heat stability of the enzyme of the patient were normal. In the leectrophoretic pattern of the whole family one bond was missing.
The author discusses the various immunological methods used to demonstrate antigen in serum hepatitis. This antigen is made up of three main types of particles: a spherical particle, a tub-like structure and a second larger spherical particle with a hexagonal centre, described by DANE. The centre of DANE's particle is immunologically distinct from its surface. The immune complexes thus formed by antibody links between surface antigens play a major role in extrahepatic manifestations of serum hepatitis. The various subtypes of antigen can be used as a basis for geographical and epidemiological study of the disease. The centre of DANE's particle is considered to be the virus itself. It cannot be cultured with current methods but it can be transmitted to chimpanzees. The antibody reacting with the surface antigen is protective. In conclusion, the author observed that an increase in serum transaminases in anesthetized patients occurred only after halothane. This suggests that liver damage after administration of halothane may be due to a direct effect of the product or its metabolites.
Spleen and lymph node cells from DBA/2 (H-2d) donor mice treated with multiple injections of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were tested in vivo for reactivity against normal tissues of host AKR (H-2k) mice against an AKR long-passage, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BW5147). LPS treatment of donor mice resulted in a reduction in graft-versus-host (GVH) reactivity without loss of graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) reactivity. Immunocompetent cells from LPS treated DBA/2 donors were effective when used for adoptive immunotherapy (in combination with chemoradiotherapy) of BW5147 leukemia. GVH associated mortality decreased as the dose of spleen cells from LPS treated histoincompatible donors was increased as much as four times the number necessary to eliminate leukemia. The mechanism by which LPS reduced GVH reactivity without eliminating GVL reactivity is unclear; however, it does not appear to be the result of a dilution in the number of GVH reactive cells by nonlymphoid elements in the donor spleen nor of the adjuvant effects of LPS on resistance to bacterial infections.
At least three substances have been reported to be present in the hypothalamus that can inhibit prolactin release, namely a PIF, catecholamines and acetylcholine. At least four substances have been reported to be present in the hypothalamus that can stimulate prolactin release, namely PRF, TRH, serotonin and prostaglandins. Neither the existence of a distinctive PIF or PRF in the hypothalamus can be considered as definitely established. The predominant action of the mammalian hypothalamus on prolactin release is inhibitory under most conditions, and is stimulatory in avian species. In addition to control by the hypothalamus, several hormones and drugs can act directly on the pituitary to alter prolactin release. The interrelationships of these agents within and without the hypothalamus on prolactin secretion are complex, and there are many questions about their mode of action. Studies on the regulation of prolactin secretion have resulted in development of many methods for either increasing or decreasing release of this important hormone, and thereby have provided opportunities for influencing lactation, growth of mammary and pituitary tumors and other tissues responsive to prolactin.
Four cases of patients suffering from peroperative skin burns at electrocardioscope electrode sites are reported. They were the result of incorrect function of the cutting diathermy, (error of internal or external connection). Use of the electrocardioscope with a "floating input" protects the patient against this type of electrical accident.
Experiments with rumen-fistulated dairy cows were performed to study the effect of NaOH-addition to cereal pellets. Compared to straw-concentrate rations in which the straw pellets were free of NaOH, cereal straw pellets containing 2.4 kg NaOH per 100 kg straw caused the rumenal pH to go up from 6.21 to 6.47, the cellulotlytic activity to rise by some 20%, and the passage turnover rate of dry matter to increase from 0,039 to 0,056. The concentrations of volatile fatty acids and the fermentation patterns were not influenced by the NaOH-content of the pellets. It is concluded that NaOH-addition during straw pelleting has a favourable effect on digestion in the bovine rumen.
A putative neurotransmitter, 2-phenylethylamine, which is most highly concentrated in the extrapyramidal system of human brain, is able to reverse reserpine-induced parkinsonism in animals and elicit stereotypy. This action is only partially antagonized after catecholamine depletion by pretreatment with a-methyl-para-tyrosine, and fully blocked by pretreatment with haloperidol, a dopamine receptor blocker. Therefore, via direct and/or indirect actions, 2-phenylethylamine may serve a neuroregulatory role in the extrapyramidal system.
Drugs of the benzodiazepine series (clonazepam, lorazepam, diazepam and medazepam) increase the inhibitory processes in the cerebral cortex as it has been shown by means of the recovery cycles of the intracortical response. There is a correlation between the effect on the recovery cycles and their protective action against convulsions induced by GABA deficit. Diazepam enhances the inhibitory effect of GABA applied iontophoretically to rabbit sensorymotor cortex neurons. The drug GABA-ergic effect seems to be specific since it fails to modify the effects of other putative neurotransmitters (glutamate, glycine, acetylcholine). The alteration of rat conflict situation behaviour under diazepam has been eliminated due to the blockade of GABA-receptors by gicuculline and the decrease of the GABA level by thiosemicarbazide. It is inferred that the main effects of benzodiazepines are mediated by GABA and suggested that these agents increase the sensitivity of postsynaptic GABA-ergic receptors.
A pH-sensitive glass electrode was used in a temperature-controlled stopped-flow rapid reaction apparatus to determine rates of pH equilibration in red cell suspensions. The apparatus requires less than 2 ml of reactants. The electrode is insensitive to pressure and flow variations, and has a response time of < 5 ms. A 20% suspension of washed fresh human erythrocytes in saline at pH 7.7 containing NaHCO(3) and extracellular carbonic anhydrase is mixed with an equal volume of 30 mM phosphate buffer at pH 6.7. Within a few milliseconds after mixing, extracellular HCO(3) (-) reacts with H(+) to form CO(2), which enters the red cells and rehydrates to form HCO(3) (-), producing an electrochemical potential gradient for HCO(3) (-) from inside to outside the cells. HCO(3) (-) then leaves the cells in exchange for Cl(-), and extracellular pH increases as the HCO(3) (-) flowing out of the cells reacts with H(+). Flux of HCO(3) (-) is calculated from the dpH/dt during HCO(3) (-)-Cl(-) exchange, and a velocity constant is computed from the flux and the calculated intracellular and extracellular [HCO(3) (-)]. The activation energy for the exchange process is 18.6 kcal/mol between 5 degrees C and 17 degrees C (transition temperature), and 11.4 kcal/mol from 17 degrees C to 40 degrees C. The activation energies and transition temperature are not significantly altered in the presence of a potent anion exchange inhibitor (SITS), although the fluxes are markedly decreased. These findings suggest that the rate-limiting step in red cell anion exchange changes at 17 degrees C, either because of an alteration in the nature of the transport site or because of a transition in the physical state of membrane lipids affecting protein-lipid interactions.
Factors influencing the interaction between Candida albicans and the polyenoic antibiotics nystatin and amphotericin B have been investigated using a K+-specific electrode to measure polyene-mediated efflux of cellular K+. In batch cultures, sensitivity was a function of culture age. Using continuous (chemostat) cultures, the influence of growth-limiting substrate, specific growth rate, growth temperature and growth pH were examined. Carbon-limited cultures showed the highest sensitivity of those substrates tested, and susceptibility increased with growth rate. Within the range 22 to 42 degrees C, growth at lower temperatures resulted in increased sensitivity, whilst a similar trend was observed when the growth pH of cultures was reduced. Further, under the conditions tested, there were considerable variations in free intracellular K+ concentrations.
The effects of both alpha and beta adrenergic agonists and blockers on antigen-stimulated DNA synthesis in human lymphocyte cultures were studied. Results show that antigen-induced responses were enhanced by the presence of the beta blockers, propranolol and dichloroisoproterenol, and that this effect appeared to be specific blocking of the lymphocyte beta receptor since D (+) propranolol, a compound devoid of such acitvity, has no effect. Similarly, and alpha adrenergic agonist such as norepinephrine enhanced lymphocyte responsiveness.
The antidepressant characteristics of three indole alkylamines were investigated and compared with phenelzine and imipramine by utilising specific pharmacological tools like reserpine, amphetamine, tryptamine and tetrabenazine for determining their possible mechanism of action. Amongst the three indole compounds investigated, indole-3-(2-aminopropyl)-acetate (U-14 164E), indole-3(2-aminobutyl)-d-acetate (u-17 312E) and beta-phenethylhydrazine (phenelzine) produced complete antagonism to reserpine induced sedation, hypothermia as well as facilitation of convulsive seizures. Some of these features suggest that MAO inhibition might be a common mechanism of action of these indoles. The potentiation of CNS effects of tryptamine by these compounds is an outstanding feature of MAO inhibitors, while imipramine is ineffective. Qualitative differences between these indoles and imipramine are evident in the tetrabenazine test. The potentiation of amphetamine induced motor excitation and pentobarbitone narcosis has been explained.
High-resolution 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra at 145.7 MHz are reported for intact Ehrlich ascites tumor cells and their perchloric acid extracts. In the extracts it was possible to assign resonances to fructose 1,6-bisphosphates, dihydroxyacetone phosphate, ATP, ADP, AMP, Pi, NAD+, phosphorylcholine, glycero-3-phosphorylcholine, glycero-3-phosphorylethanolamine, and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate from their chemical shifts, pH behavior, and spin couplings. All but glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate were observed and assigned in the intact cells. It was possible to show that the hydrolysis of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate is in equilibrium, that the dihydroxyacetone phosphate leads to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate reaction is not, and that in the intact cell without added oxygen or glucose the reaction 2ADP in equilibrium ATP + AMP is in equilibrium. From the known pH dependence of the Pi resonance it was possible to show that during aerobic or anerobic glycolysis the difference between intracellular and extracellular pH values was less than 0.2 pH units. Upon oxygenation the ATP concentration increased while the ADP concentration fell. Introducing deoxyglucose depleted the ATP and resulted in an AMP signal and one from deoxyglucose 6-phosphate, which is transported and phosphorylated but not catabolized.
A variety of nitroso chemical carcinogens increase the activity of guanylate cyclase (EC 4.6.1.2), the enzyme catalyzing the production of guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate. In the present report, the first non-nitroso chemical carcinogen, butadiene diepoxide, was shown to activate guanylate in a variety of tissues over the concentration range 1-100 mmol/l. At 20 mmol/l concentration, increases were 2- to 17-fold above control. These observations have potential importance since guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate may be involved in cell growth and malignant transformation.
The in vitro assembly of rabbit skeletal myosin was studied by flow birefringence. Filaments were obtained from a solution of myosin in 0.5 M KCl by rapid dilution to lower ionic strength. In most cases, the filament length as determined from extinction angle measurements increased or decreased gradually for about 1 h after dilution, depending on pH, KCl concentration and the previous history. The filament length (l) immediately after dilution also showed a marked dependence on pH, KCl concentration and protein concentration (c) at the moment of assembly. The general characteristics obtained from our limited study (0.04-6.0 mg/ml) show three distinctive modes of effect of the protein concentration on the filament length: d logl/d log c is positive (0.1-1) at small c, negative (from -1 to -0.2) at intermediate c, and zero or slightly positive (0.0-0.3) at large c. Lowering of the KCl concentration (75-250 mM) as well as increase of the hydrogen ion concentration (pH 6-8) influenced the filament length in qualitatively the same manner as increase of the protein concentration. A model of the assembly reaction of myosin in which the polarity of filaments is crucial was constructed and shown to give qualitatively the experimental dependence of the filament length on the protein concentration.
The presence of suppressor cells in the spleens of C57BL/6 mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma was investigated with the use of the in vitro lymphoproliferative response to mitogens and the graft-versus-host reaction (GVHR) as test systems. Splenocytes from tumor-bearing mice showed a lower response to mitogens when obtained 15-27 days after tumor transplant. In parallel, these cells were capable of suppressing the response of normal spleen cells to mitogens and their capacity to mount a GVHR in allogeneic hosts. Treatments with procedures known to remove adherent phagocytes, but not treatments with anti-Thy 1.2 serum plus complement, removed the suppressive activity observed.
The hemoglobin oxidation Bohr effect is larger than the ligation Bohr effect, even when the former is corrected for any ionization of the water molecule bound to the ferric iron of methemoglobin. This residual oxidation Bohr effect is here shown to be solely caused by the influence of the positively charged ferriheme, and is abolished when the oxidized heme binds an anion. This result frees the formal equivalence of hemoglobin ligation and oxidation from the last apparent experimental discrepancy.
The influence of several compounds activating or producing hypofunction of the serotonergic system was studied on the convulsive threshold and anticonvulsive action of benzodiazepines (chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, oxazepam, nitrazepam) in the pentylenetetrazol test. No changes in the convulsive threshold either for clonic, nor for tonic phase were found. However, the anticonvulsive action of benzodiazepines was enhanced by 5-hydroxytryptophan, 5-methoxytryptamine (given together with pargyline), or fenfluramine. p-Chlorophenylalanine and methergoline did not affect, but cyproheptadine enhanced the anticonvulsive action of most of benzodiazepines tested.
1. Secretion of acid and pepsin from separated pouches of the body of the abomasum was studied in sheep during perfusion of antral pouches with acid solutions. 2. Resting secretion of acid and pepsin was reduced by acidification of antral pouches to pH 2.7 or less. 3. Increases in the secretion of HCl and pepsin normally obtained on feeding were reduced or abolished by perfusion of antral pouches with solutions at pH 1.3--2.0. 4. Perfusion of antral pouches with acetylcholine at pH 2.5 failed to stimulate acid secretion as it did at a higher pH. 5. Pentagastrin stimulated acid and pepsin secretion during the inhibition of secretion produced by antral pouch acidification. 6. Increases in reticular motility occurred on antral pouch acidification with solutions of pH 1.1--1.3. 7. The contribution of antral pH in regulating abomasal acid secretion is discussed.
The limits of the use of the methods of direct photometric and differential spectrophotometric determination of rifamycin S containing rifamycin O as an admixture were discussed. The method of direct photometry did not provide determination of rifamycin S in the presence of rifamycin O since instability of the latter under the analysis conditions. A possibility of using the differential-spectrophotometric method for determination of rifamycin S in the presence of not more than 5 per cent of rifamycin O was shown.
One hundred and twenty-eight Sprague-Dawley rats were each anesthetized with one of four anaesthetics and subjected to a standard hemorrhage protocol to determine the effects of anesthetics on survival following hemorrhage. The anesthetics studied were: halothane, 1.26 vol per cent; fluroxene, 4.5 vol per cent; pentobarbital, 50 mg/kg ip; ketamine, 125 mg/kg, im. Mean arterial pressure was conrolled at 40 torr during 60 minutes of hemorrhage. Cumulative survival rates were determined at the end of hemorrhage and 24 hr, 48 hr, 72 hr, and 7 days after hemorrhage. Twenty-four-hour survival rates were: halothane, 50.0 per cent; fluroxene, 56.3 per cent; pentobarbital, 59.4 per cent; ketamine, 84.4 per cent. Seven-day survival rates were: halothane, 46.9 per cent; fluroxene, 18.7 per cent; pentobarbital, 53.1 per cent; ketamine; 81.3 per cent. Survival rates were significantly higher (P less than 0.05) in animals anesthetized with ketamine compared with survival rates associated with the other anesthetics. Long-term (72-hr and seven-day) survival rates were significantly (P less than 0.05) lower in animals anesthetized with fluroxene. Microscopic examination of livers and small intestines revealed significantly fewer (P less than 0.05) athologic changes in the splanchnic organs of hemorrhaged rats anesthetized with ketamine compared with animals anesthetized with the other drugs.
Ca uptake by microsomes isolated from non-pregnant rabbit myometrium was potentiated by both inorganic phosphate (Pi) and oxalate anions. Both Pi and oxalate had little effect on the initial rate of uptake but a pronounced effect on the capacity of Ca uptake measured after 20 min which was greater in the presence of oxalate than that of Pi (5 mM each). The presence or absence of sucrose in the uptake medium had a significant effect on oxalate-induced potentiation of Ca uptake but not on that potentiated by Pi or that measured in the absence of either potentiating anion. A part of Ca accumulated additionally under the influence of sucrose could be removed by washing microsomes with KCl. Another significant difference between the pontentiating effect of oxalate and Pi was observed when the pH of the incubation medium was varied. In the presence of oxalate the pH optimum was between 6.4--6.8, whereas that in its absence or in the presence of Pi the optimal pH was around 7.2. Reduction in pH from 7.2 to 6.8 along with the substitution of KCl by sucrose resulted in 3-fold increase in Ca uptake when oxalate was used as the potentiating anion. The results suggest that Ca is taken up by a different mechanism in the presence of oxalate than that in its absence or when oxalate anion is substituted with inorganic phosphate.
It has been suggested that the peptides alpha-metanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and MSH-release inhibitory factor (MIF-1) may alter adenosine-3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) metabolism [13,26]. Normal and hypophysectomized (hypoxed) rats were administered saline (controls IP daily X 3), alpha-MSH (80 mug/kg IP daily X 3) or MIF-1 (1 or 10 mg/kg IP daily X 3) and sacrificed 30 min after the third injection in a focused microwave oven (1.5 KW; 2-3 sec). Various brain areas were then assayed for cAMP levels after each treatment. The occipital cortex area was the only area to show consistent changes in both normal and hypoxed rats after alpha-MSH treatment. These findings were replicated for the occipital cortex in a second group of normal and hypoxed rats which were similarly treated. The results suggest a correlation between the rise in cAMP found and reported changes in visual acuity and attention in rats and human after treatment with alpha-MSH [8,14, 23].
Autolysin-defective pneumococci secrete into the growth medium choline-containing macromolecules during treatment with any one of a large number of inhibitors of cell wall biosynthesis, including beta-lactams, beta-halogeno-d-alanines, cephalosporins, and d-cycloserine. Secretion is closely related to the dose response of the bacteria to the various drugs: (i) secretion can already be detected at the minimum inhibitory concentration; (ii) the rate and extent of secretion is dependent upon the drug concentration; and (iii) secretion commences within minutes after the addition of the antibiotics to the cultures. Reversal of the growth-inhibitory effect of benzylpenicillin (by penicillinase addition) is accompanied by a halt in secretion just at the time when the bacteria resume normal growth. Secretion of the choline-containing macromolecules seems to be a specific consequence of the inhibition of peptidoglycan biosynthesis, since inhibition of growth by drugs affecting protein, ribonucleic acid, or deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis does not cause secretion. The choline-containing macromolecules include both the pneumococcal lipid-containing teichoic acid (Forssman antigen) and wall teichoic acids made after the addition of antibiotics. The appearance of these macromolecules in the growth medium is not due to the hydrolytic activity of an autolysin, since penicillin-induced secretion could be demonstrated in autolysin-defective mutants, in pneumococci grown on ethanolamine-containing medium (such cells are known to have defective autolytic systems), and in wildtype pneumococci grown under conditions nonpermissive for lysis.
Orofacial trauma was found in 49% of 260 documented cases of child abuse seen during of five-year period at the Children's Hospital Medical Center, Boston. An additional 16% of the cases involved head trauma; the total percentage of head and facial trauma was 65%. Head or facial trauma was the principal reason for admission to the hospital in 45% of the cases. A survey of 537 dentists in Massachusetts showed that the majority were unaware of their legal and social responsibilities to report suspected cases of child abuse. Eleven percent of all dentists surveyed saw orofacial trauma cases that were of a suspicious nature, by only 22 confirmed cases of child abuse were noted by the dentists. Of these, only four were reported to social agencies. In general, oral surgeons and pedodontists saw a higher percentage of these cases and were more aware of their responsibilities than were general practitioners.
A basic principle of children's surgery is to plan it to last for 70 years. The successful reconstruction of the dorsalis pedis artery in an 8-year-old after trauma may be of benefit if he develops peripheral vascular disease as an adult.
Urinary TG and fractionated 17-ketosteroid (Drosdowsky) determinations were performed before and after the intramuscular administration of 15,000 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in 10 sexually immature healthy boys and in 12 bilaterally cryptorchid boys. The same basal determinations were made in 11 gonadless girls. Basal serum FSH and LH were determined (by radioimmunoassay) in controls and also in cryptorchid boys. If 15mug/24 h (three SD's of basal excretion in controls) is considered the smallest adequate response, the TG but not the fractionated 17-KS determination assessed fairly well either the presence or the functional capacity of the Leydig cell-containing tissue. Agonadic girls had significantly higher basal excretion of steroids and this is presumably due to their greater absolute body size and to their more advanced bone age.
The ethylmorphine-N-demethylation by liver microsomes from control and phenobarbital-treated rats of different ages was investigated by means of adding NADPH in combination  with NADH to the incubation medium. The rate of ethylmorphine-N-demethylation in the presence of NADPH without NADH is greater in adult than in young rats and greater in induced that in control rats. The higher the activity of ethylmorphine metabolism with NADPH alone the more it is abolsutely enhanced by NADH. The relative increase in ethylmorphine metabolism caused by NADH is equal in all groups of animals. It is concluded that there are no differences in the introduction of the second electron from NADH to the oxygenated cytochrome P-450 but there are differences in the concentration of cytochrome-substrate complex and, consequently, in the oxygenated cytochrome-substrate complex. The enhancing effect of NADH is higher at lower NADPH concentrations. In the presence of NADH, the NADPH concentrations necessary to obtain a msximum metabolic rate are lower than without NADH.
The importance of the method of administration of acid glucose infusions for the venous inflammatory response has been investigated in two series of experimental trials. 60 ml of 5% glucose solution was administered into rabbit-ear veins in three ways: 1) continuously over 5 hours (slow infusion), 2) continuously over 1 hour (rapid infusion), 3) discontinuously during 2 X 30 minutes with an interval of 4 hours (discontinuous infusion). Microscopical examination of the veins revealed that the inflammatory changes were less pronounced after rapid and discontinuous infusions than after slow infusions.
Clindamycin 2-palmitate hydrochloride forms micelles in aqueous solution at concentrations above 2-2 X 10(-3) M. Dilution of micellar solutions of the drug to concentrations less than 2-0 X 10(-3) M produces turbid systems. Turbidity is caused by unionized drug, produced by hydrolysis of the salt, phasing out of solution at concentrations too low for micelles to be formed. Changes in specific conductivity and turbidity associated with the phasing-out process have been measured and explained in terms of the rates of the various processes involved, including demicellization and emulsion stability. The phenomenon of phasing-out, below a critical concentration in aqueous solution, is predicted to be a general one for weakly ionized surfactants where the unionized species possesses low water solubility.
The potentiometric titration curve of milk does not show an equilibrium curve but a hysteresis loop between pH 6.2 und pH 4.8. Hysteresis means thermodynamic metastability and cooperative changes within a structural domain. The structural domain involved in these changes is the casein micelle. Cooperative conformation changes and thermodynamic metastability appear on the resolution of the casein micelle caused by the action of protons. The charge condition of the polypeptide chains is not synchron with the charge supply. The lag depends on the thermal treatment. Therefore the milk protein system can serve as a memory for physical datas.
1. Conscious experimental hypertensive rats injected intraventricularly with 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine (50 microgram) responded with a rapid and long-lasting (4 days) fall in blood pressure and this was accompanied by a bradycardia of similar duration. 2. The acute actions of 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine on the cardiovascular system were not modified by pretreatment with bromolysergide (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), methysergide (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or intraventricular phentolamine (200 microgram). 3. The results suggest that central serotonergic neurones play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure. However, the site of action remains to be investigated.
Enterobacter aerogenes, Aeromonas hydrophila, Serratia marcescens and Staphylococcus aureus possessing L(+)-butanediol dehydrogenase produced mainly meso-butanediol and small amounts of optically active butanediol; Acetobacter suboxydans, Bacillus polymyxa and Erwinia carotovora containing D(-)-butanediol dehydrogenase produced more optically active butanediol than meso-butanediol. Resting and growing cells of these organisms oxidezed only one enantiomer of racemic butanediol. The D(-)-butanediol dehydrogenase from Bacillus polymyxa was partially purified (30-fold) with a specific activity of 24.5. Except NAD and NADH no other cofactors were required. Optimum pH-values for oxidation and reduction were pH 9 and pH 7, respectively. The optimum temperature was about 60 degrees C. The molecular weight was 100000 to 107000. The Km-values were 3.3 mM for D(-)butanediol, 6.25 mM for meso-butanediol, 0.53 mM for acetoin, 0.2 mM for NAD, 0.1 mM for NADH, 87 mM for diacetyl, 38 mM for 1,2-propanediol; 2,3-pentanedion was not a substrate for this enzyme. The L(+)butanediol dehydrogenase from Serratia marcescens was purified 57-fold (specific activity 22.3). Besides NAD or NADH no cofactors were required. The optimum value for oxidation was about pH9 and for reduction pH 4.5. The optimum temperature was 32-36 degrees C. The molecular weight was 100000 to 107000. The Km-values were 5 mM for meso-butanediol, 10 mM for racemic butanediol, 6.45 for acetoin, 1 mM for NAD, 0.25 mM for NADH, 2.08 mM for diacetyl, 16.7 mM for 2,3-pentanedion and 11.8 mM for 1,2-propanediol.
The absolute and relative bioavailability of flunitrazepam (Rohypnol) tablet, oral solution and suppository formulations was determined in a cross-over study on 6 healthy volunteers. The tablet and the oral solution were shown to be bioequivalent, absorption being at least 80%. For flunitrazepam suppositories the bioavailability was found to be about 50%. The plasma concentrations are described on the basis of a three-compartment model, the adjustment of the curves from the same subject being made simultaneously. The central compartment and the second compartment are about equal in size and rapid exchange takes place between them. The third compartment is about four times as large as the central one. The slow reflux of the compound from the third to the first compartment is the rate determining factor for the overall elimination in the beta-phase.
Clinical results of marrow transplantation in the treatment of aplastic anemia and acute leukemia are reviewed. The principal problem areas in this field at this time are discussed.
The sedimentation coefficient of Zaysan virion ribonucleic acid (RNA), estimated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation, was 42 S. Pancreatic ribonuclease digested the viral RNA to acid-soluble fragments. Two viral structural proteins with apparent molecular weight of 50,000 and 30,000 daltons were identified by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A dense, RNA-rich particle, containing the smaller polypeptide, was isolated after mild detergent treatment of Zaysan virus.
The ultrastructural aspects of the nuclear coat formation in midgut epithelial cells of pupae and adult flies of G. morsitans sspp. are described. Out of four different species of Glossina examined, this peculiar structure was only found in G. morsitans sspp. Three different types of viruslike particles were found in midgut epithelial cells. One type which is of the same kind of particle found in the salivary glands, lies inside of cytoplasmic vesicles. Two other types of particles were detected in the nuclei.
Morphological, cultural and physiological properties of the fungus Oospora lactis producing lipase are described. The activity of lipase depends on the composition of a growth medium, pH, temperature, the duration of cultivation. Optimum conditions for lipase biosynthesis by the fungus have been found. The strain produces extracellular and endocellular lipases during submerged cultivation in the optimum growth medium at a high rate.
Uridine phosphorylase from Escherichia coli has been purified to homogeneity. The enzyme was found to have a molecular weight of 176000 and to consist of 8 probably identical subunits with molecular weights of 22000. These numbers were determined from equilibrium centrifugations in the analytical ultracentrifuge, from dodecylsulphate gel electrophoresis and from amino acid analysis. Moreover the following physico-chemical constants were determined: s020,w = 8.2 x 10(-13) s, upsilon2 = 0.751 cm3/g, A1%280 (1 cm) = 6.73 and a specific activity of 183 units/mg towards uridine. The enzyme shows some activity towards deoxyuridine and thymidine. The activity is not impaired through substitution by bromo, fluoro or methyl groups in the 5-position of the uracil base, but no enzymatic activity is observed when cytosine base is used in the nucleoside substrate.
A method for determination of acetylcholine in small, discrete biological objects by use of ion-pair technique has been developed. Acetylcholine is extracted as an ion pair with 3,5-di-t-butyl-2-hydroxybenzenesulphonate and separated from co-extracted components by ion-pair partition chromatography with picrate as the counter ion and porous cellulose as support. The quantitative evaluation is made from the acetylcholine peak in the chromatogram obtained by ultraviolet detection. Acetylcholine has been analysed in 1 cm large pieces of rat sciatic nerve containing about 60 pmol (10 ng). The overall recovery of the method is 100 +/- 10% at the 120 pmol level of acetylcholine in a sample.
A cytochemical study on the localization of the enzymes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, sorbitol dehydrogenase, and alkaline phosphatase was carried out in human ampullary glands. Although the former two enzymes showed a marked reactivity, alkaline phosphatase was absent from epithelial cells. On the basis of these results it is concluded that, as in the human seminal vesicle, in the ampullary gland fructose is probably secreted via the oxidative mechanism proposed by Hers (Le Metabolisme du Fructose. Bruxelles, Arscia, 1957).
Four general groups of psychotropic drugs are examined with respect to possible adverse effects upon intraocular pressure. After a brief discussion of the various mechanisms of the glaucomas, both general and specific information is provided and discussed concerning antipsychotic, antidepressant, antiparkinsonian and antianxiety preparations of a variety of chemical structures and utilities. The consensus of the authors is that with certain basic safeguards virtually all of the medications studied are acceptably safe to prescribe even in patients with diagnosed glaucoma.
The possible role of glutamate dehydrogenase, glutamate synthase, and glutamine synthetase in the regulation of enzyme formation in the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) catabolic pathway of Escherichia coli K-12 was investigated. Evidence is presented indicating that glutamine synthetase acts as a positive regulator in the E. coli GABA control system. Mutations impairing glutamate synthase activity prevent the depression of the enzymes of the GABA pathway in ammonia-limited glucose media. However, mutations resulting in constitutive synthesis of glutamine synthetase (GlnC) restore the ability of the glutamate synthase-less mutants to grow in glucose-GABA media and result in depressed synthesis of the GABA enzymes. It is suggested that the loss of glutamate synthesis activity affects the GABA control system indirectly by lowering glutamine synthetase levels.
Phthalate is degraded through 4,5-dihydroxyphthalate and protocatechuate in Pseudomonas testosteroni NH1000. The ezyme 4,5-dihydroxyphthalate decarboxylase, catalyzing the conversion of 4,5-dihydroxyphthalate to protocatechuate and carbon dioxide, was purified approximately 130-fold from phthalate-induced cells of a protocatechuate 4,5-dioxygenase-deficient mutant of P. testosteroni. The most purified preparation showed a single protein band on sodium dodecyl sulfate-acrylamide disc gel electrophoresis with a molecular weight of 38,000. The apparent molecular weight of the native enzyme determined by Sephadex G-200 column chromatography was 150,000. Among the substrate analogs tested, only 4-hydroxyphthalate served as a substrate, which was decarboxylated to form m-hydroxybenzoate. The apparent Km values for 4,5-dihydroxyphthalate and 4-hydroxyphthalate were estimated to be 10.5 micrometer and 1.25 mM, respectively, and the Vmax for the former was 10 times larger than that for the latter. Whereas the wild-type strain could utilize 4-hydroxyphthalate as a sole source of carbon, none of the following could grow with the compound: 4,5-dihydroxyphthalate decarboxylase-deficient, m-hydroxybenzoate-nondegradable, and protocatechuate 4,5-dioxygenase-deficient mutants. Since one-step revertants of these mutants could utilize 4-hydroxyphthalate, the compound appears to be metabolized through m-hydroxybenzoate and protocatechuate in P. testosteroni NH1000.
I have tried to bring out some of the important methodological problems found in examining the effectiveness of drugs used in the control of druginduced parkinsonism by referring mainly to studies in which I have taken part. I hope I have shown that the whole topic is far less well understood than is often assumed. The main points may be summarized as follows: there is doubt as to whether many of the drugs used in controlling drug-induced parkinsonism are really effective; the results of many studies are conflicting; many studies contain serious flaws in design; methods for assessing extrapyramidal signs are not well developed; we are ignorant of the way in which drug-induced extrapyramidal signs change spontaneously. There is a clear need for further research in this area to improve techniques of assessment, to provide basic information on drug-induced syndromes, and to rigorously examine the efficacy of the drugs used in controlling them.
The mechanism of alpha-chymotrypsin action has been probed by extending studies of native chymotrypsin to immobilized chymotrypsin, where the organic content of the solution can be raised to much higher levels and thus one can explicitly look at the role of water. When one does this, one finds that water only appears in the deacylation reaction. The premise that one can go from native chymotrypsin (souble) to immobilized chymotrypsin (insoluble) has been tested by several criteria. It has been found in many instances that the two are identical: in absolute rate, in pKa. They are, however, not identical to one another in binding, due to differences in diffusion, which is to be expected. Thus, mechanistically immobilized and native chymotrypsin are identical to one another and the use of immobilized chymotrypsin can be used to specify the mechanism even more: it must proceed through two tetrahedral intermediates and two acyl-enzyme intermediates.
Chymotrypsin-type proteinase is detected in the proteolytic system of Asp. oryzae. The action of it and chymotrypsin is shown to depend on formaldehyde. Hydrolysis of substrates, p-nitrophenyl acetate (p-NPA) and N-benzoyl-tyrosine methyl ether (BTME), by both preparations is almost the same. The obtained activity pH-optimum for the studied proteinase esterolytic activity is located in the alkaline zone as well as for crystalline chymotrypsin (substrate p-NPA). It concerns pH of both enzymes stability as well. The enzyme under study is relatively labile. At 50 degrees C there are only traces of the activity in the medium with p-NPG. Its considerable decrease is observed at 40 degrees C. This type activity is more stable on the substrate BTME. 10 min later it disappears completely in the enzymic preparation at a temperature of 60 degrees C at 40 degrees C it is 96.8%. For 24 h at 25 degrees C the activity lowers only by 8%. Crystalline chymotrypsin is stable under these conditions. DEAE-cellulose chromatography (different types of elution) detected multiple forms of proteinase differing in solubility chromatographic properties and specific activity when splitting the substrates p-NPA, BTME and casein.
The effects of obstetrical medication on neonatal behavior were studied using a sample of Israeli infants from medicated and nonmedicated mothers. Few significant behavioral differences were detected in the first month of life, and there was no difference in Bayley Infant Scale performance at 3 months of age. Comparative analyses using samples of American and Uruguayan infants and additional data from other studies of American newborns led to the conclusion that light levels of obstetrical medication do not appear to have significant effects on neonatal behavior. However, this may well be qualified by some initial population differences, by the measurements commonly used in the studies reviewed, and possibly by critical cutoff points dividing the levels of medication that will and will not affect neonatal behavior.
Human gastric mucosal adenylate cyclase has been shown to be sensitive to histamine and catecholamines. Stimulation of enzyme activity by histamine and catecholamines were selectively blocked by cimetidine and propranolol, respectively. Combination of both hormones at maximally effective concentrations were additive, indicating that human gastric mucosa contains at least two separate hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclases.
Eleven instances of a mixed acid-base disorder consisting of chronic respiratory acidosis and metabolic alkalosis were recognized in eight patients with chronic obstructive lung disease and carbon dioxide retention. Correction of the metabolic alkalosis led to substantial improvement in blood gas values and clinical symptoms. Patients with mixed chronic respiratory acidosis and metabolic alkalosis constitute a common subgroup of patients with chronic obstructive lung disease and carbon dioxide retention; these patients benefit from correction of the metabolic alkalosis.
The acidimetric method for the determination of nicotinic acid (NA) using Lactobacillus plantarum ATCC 8014 (Lactobacillus arabinosus 17-5) has been simplified and thus made less time consuming, and the sensitivity has been increased fivefold by replacement of the titration by a pH determination. As the regression of the decrease in pH on the amount of NA was found linear within a range of 1 to 4 ng of NA per ml, the calculations were performed according to the slope-ratio principle. The NA concentration of plasma was determined with a coefficient of variation of 5 to 7%, which rose to about 10% at low NA concentrations. Assays of fasting plasma samples from 13 hyperlipidemic male patients showed a group mean NA concentration of 80 +/- 55 ng/ml (mean +/- 2 standard deviation), before treatment, and 705 +/- 544 ng/ml (mean +/- 2 standard deviation) during therapy with sustained release NA preparations, of which a single dose, ingested during steady-state conditions, doubled or tripled the plasma concentration within 1 to 3 h.
The pharmacology and hemodynamics of tazolol (1-iso-propylamino-3-(2-thiazoloxy)-2-propranolol HC1), a selective myocardial beta-stimulant, were studied in pentobarbital anesthetized dogs. Tazolol, i.v., increased myocardial contractile force and heart rate, but induced only minimal changes in arterial pressure. The cardiac effects of tazolol were blocked by pretreatment with the beta-blockers propranolol or practolol and inhibited in animals made tachyphylactic to amphetamine. They were not altered by pretreatment with hexamehtonium, atropine or reserpine. Tazolol increased left circumflex coronary artery flow to a far greater extent than a dose level of isoproterenol which produced a greater increase in cardiac output. Tazolol also increased superior mesenteric artery flow, whereas isoproterenol decreased it. Renal artery flow was not altered. Tazolol was also found to be orally active and to possess some mild general beta-blocking activity.
Production of extracellular maltase was studied with thermophilic Bacillus sp. KP 1035, which was selected as the organism producing the highest levels of maltase. The final enzyme yield was increased by maltose, peptone, and yeast extract but reduced by succinate and fumarate. Maximum enzyme production was achieved at 55 degrees C and at an initial pH of 6.2 to 7.0 on a medium containing 0.3% maltose, 1% peptone, 0.1% meat extract, 0.3% yeast extract, 0.3% KH2PO4, and 0.1% KH2PO4. Maltase was synthesized in cytoplasm and accumulated as a large pool during the logarithmic growth phase, which preceded sporulation. At the end of this phase, the enzyme appeared in the culture broth, and its accumulation increased in parallel with a rise in the extracellular protein level. Maltase was stable for 24 h at 60 degrees C over a pH range of 5.6 to 9.0 and retained 95% of the original activity after treatment for 20 min at 70 degrees C at pH 6.8.
Fifteen patients with the diagnosis of multiple endocrine adenomatosis, type II, syndrome (MEA II) were reported from a single center to discuss the dilemmas of early detection and treatment of the adrenal medullary, thyroid, and parathyroid gland diseases. Ten patients came from three families. Three of the patients died, none in hypertensive crisis. Bilateral adrenal medullary disease was present in six patients. Five patients with proved pheochromocytoma had hypertension. All had diagnostic urinary catecholamine values. Nine normotensive patients without proved pheochromocytoma but in a high-risk category for adrenal medullary disease, have multiple suspicious urinary cathecholamines suggestive of adrenal medullary hyperplasia. Bilateral adrenalectomy is recommended for proved adrenal medullary disease in the MEA II syndrome. Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland was found in 13 patients and is believed to be present in two others. Five of the proved cases were occult, being discovered by elevation of pentagastrin-stimulated serum calcitonin levels, justifying total thyroidectomy. Parathyroid hyperplasia was found in three patients with preoperative hypercalcemia and in four others with preoperative normocalcemia. Conservative treatment of parathyroid gland hyperplasia in the MEA II syndrome is substantiated. Metachronous phenotypic expression of the syndrome components was significant.
In our laboratory, culture of sputum was extremely useful in diagnosing the etiology of pneumococcal pneumonia. Of 31 consecutive patients with bacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia, 29 (94%) had Streptococcus pneumoniae cultured from sputum. Recovery of pneumococci in culture was enhanced by anaerobic incubation as well as by a plate bile test and an optochin disk on a primary blood agar plate.
An understanding of the physiology of vascular smooth muscle and knowledge of the reaction of such muscle to certain drugs are essential for the development of a means of treating cerebral arterial spasm. The role of cyclic nucleotides in vascular smooth muscle activity is reviewed and possible therapeutic approaches are listed. Probably the safest and most effective treatment would be 1) stimulation of the adenyl cyclase-cyclic adenosine monophosphate system by a beta(2)-adrenergic drug combined with 2) inhibition of the phosphodiesterase system.
Plectonema boryanum requires approximately 5 days of exposure to a culture medium lacking phosphorus to induce the "polyphosphate overplus" phenomenon. At pH9, phosphate uptake is greatest both from normal culture medium and from dilute salt solutions. Phosphate uptake from dilute salt solutions was greatest when Na+ or K+ are combined with Ca2+ or Ca2+ and Mg2+. Cells starved of phosphorus in the presence of a high concentration of K+ or Ca2+ in the medium, and then allowed to take up phosphorus under the same conditions, assimilate more phosphorus than with other major ions.
Rat liver ornithine decarboxylase induced by injection of thioacetamide has been separated into at least two fractions by covalent chromatography on an activated thiol-Sepharose 4B column. The two major fractions could be distinguished by ion exchange chromatography and electrophoresis on acrylamide gels. In addition, the two forms displayed different Km values for ornithine. Although the two forms are separable, they display identical antigenic properties, pH optima, and they appear to be the same molecular size. The biological significance or the relationship between multiple forms of ornithine decarboxylase is not understood.
Ion-sensitive microelectrodes were used to record intracellular pH, Na+ and Cl- in snail neurones. NaCl or HCl was injected iontophoretically to compare the Na pump with the pHi regulating system. The Na pump was inhibited by ouabain, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone and increasing the membrane potential, whereas the pHi regulating system was relatively unaffected. Activation of the Na pump had no effect on pHi whereas activation of the pHi recovery process increased internal Na+. Activation of the pHi recovery process by CO2 application increased internal Na+ and also decreased internal Cl-. The results show that there is no direct connexion between the Na pump and the pHi recovery process, and that the pHi recovery process is electroneutral, and appears not to require metabolic energy. The results also confirm that the pHi recovery process involves the influx of Na+ ions and the efflux of Cl- ions.
Human liver extracts show two major bands with aldehyde dehydrogenase (Aldehyde:NAD+ oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.1.3) activity via starch gel electrophoresis at pH 7.0. Both bands have been purified to apparent homogeneity via classical chromatography combined with affinity chromatography on 5'-AMP-Sepharose 4B. The slower migrating band, enzyme 1, when assayed at pH 9.5 has a low Km for NAD (8 micrometer) and a high Km for acetaldehyde (approx. 0.1 mM). It is very strongly inhibited by disulfiram at pH 7.0 with a Ki of 0.2 micrometer. The faster migrating band, enzyme 2, has a low Km for acetaldehyde, (2--3 micrometer at pH 9.5), a higher Km for NAD (70 micrometer at pH 9.5), and is not inhibited by disulfiram at pH 7.0. The two enzymes are very similar to the F1 and F2 isozymes of horse liver purified by Eckfeldt et al. (Eckfeldt, J., Mope, L., Takio, K. and Yonetani, T. (1976) J. Biol, Chem. 251, 236-240) in molecular weight, subunit composition, amino acid composition and extinction coefficient. Preliminary kinetic characterizations of the enzyme are presented.
Extracts of specific granules and azurophil granules from human neutrophils were tested for their bactericidal activity against various lipopolysaccharide mutants of Salmonella typhimurium LT-2. Three purified granule populations, one specific and two azurophil, were obtained by isopycnic centrifugation of homogenized neutrophils. Each was extracted with 0.2 M acetate buffer (pH 4), and the extracts were dialyzed against phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7) to remove acetate. These extracts contained >/=84% of the lysozyme, lactoferrin, or myeloperoxidase initially present in the whole granules. The S. typhimurium mutants possessed Ra, Rc, Rd(1), Rd(2), or Re lipopolysaccharide. As the carbohydrate content of the lipopolysaccharide decreased, the bacteria became increasingly more susceptible to the bactericidal activity of all granule extracts. Bactericidal activity of the extracts was in the order: mixed (azurophil + specific) >/= azurophil >> specific. Specific granules were bacteriostatic for S through Rd(2) bacteria. They were bactericidal only for the Re mutant. Both azurophil granule populations were equally bactericidal. Extracts boiled for 30 min retained none of their bactericidal activity for any of the bacteria; however, they remained bacteriostatic for the deep rough (Rd(2), Re) mutants. Bactericidal activity was dependent upon pH, in that mixed and azurophil granule contents killed the smooth parent and Ra mutant best at pH 5, the Rc and Rd(1) mutants to the same degree at pH 5 to 8, and the deep rough mutants (Rd(2) and Re) best at pH 8. Specific granule contents were most bacteriostatic for S through Rd(2) bacteria at pH 5 and killed the Re mutant only at pH 8. Thus, as the S. typhimurium lipopolysaccharide content decreased, the bactericidal pH optimum increased. Killing by all extracts was dependent upon incubation temperature, with almost no bactericidal or bacteriostatic activity observed when bacteria and granule fractions were incubated on ice (2 degrees C) and plated immediately. Intermediate killing was observed at 22 degrees C. If bacteria were incubated with granule extracts at 2 degrees C, washed free of extract, suspended in medium without extract, and reincubated at 37 degrees C, killing was observed. This suggested that a component(s) of the extracts was sticking to the bacteria at 2 degrees C but killing only at 37 degrees C.
The ocular hypotensive efficacy of continuously delivered epinephrine is compared to that of pulsed doses provided by eyedrops in both normotensive and hypertensive rabbit eyes. In normotensive eyes, 2 microgram/hr and 4 microgram/hr epinephrine delivered into the tear film continuously for 12 hours reduces intraocular pressure as well as eyedrop pulses of 0.5% epinephrine hydrochloride or 2% epinephrine bitartrate (doses of 500 and 1100 microgram, respectively). Ocular hypertension induced by an intragastric water load in rabbits is significantly inhibited by continuous delivery of epinephrine at the rates of 3 or 6 microgram/hr, or by 2% epinephrine bitartrate (1% free base) eyedrops. Epinephrine delivered continuously at rates of 2-6 microgram/hr for 6 to 12 hours (12-72 microgram total) has hypotensive efficacy equivalent to 15 to 40 times as much epinephrine applied once in eyedrops. Epinephrine bitartrate eyedrops reduce tear film pH well below normal. Continuous delivery of epinephrine bitartrate does not reduce tear film pH below normal levels.
Cimetidine, a new H2-receptor antagonist, was safely administered to eighteen healthy man by the intravenous, intraduodenal or oral route. 2 When gastric secretion was maximally stimulated by either histamine or pentagastrin, the simultaneous administration of cimetidine produced marked inhibition of both acid and pepsin secretion. 3 Cimetidine was well absorbed by mouth and had a blood half-life of 2 hours. 4 Cimetidine was rapidly excreted via the kidneys and about 70% of the excreted material was unchanged drug. 5 Clinical evaluation of cimetidine in patients with peptic ulceration is recommended.
The ATP-dependent uptake of H+ by hog gastric parietal cell vesicles was quantitated by using the pH indicator dyes bromcresol green and malachite green, the weak bases, aminopyrine and 9-aminoacridine, and the pH electrode. A K+-dependent H+ uptake was found, with a significant difference between the quantity of H+ disappearing from the medium (deltaHo) and the quantity appearing inside the vesicle (deltaHi). 9-Aminoacridine gave a lower value for the deltaHi than any of the other probes. Probes of potential such as diethyloxadicarbocyanine or oxonol dyes showed that only secondary diffusion potentials occurred during H+ uptake and that the cationic dyes in the presence of protonophores could also be used to quantitate H+ uptake. The potential in the presence of protonophore indicated a deltaHi greater than that found with the other probes. Binding sites for acridine orange were generated either by ATP or an artificial pH gradient and corresponded to the deltaHi indicated by aminopyrine. SCN- (30mM) only partially inhibited the H+ gradient, and this, coupled with the failure to detect the physiological deltapH of 6.6, indicated that these vesicles may be an incomplete model of gastric acid secretion.
Subcutaneous sensitization of guinea pigs with -vaccine, and also an intracardiac injection of smallpox or measles vaccine induced production of brain autoantibodies, whereas subcutaneous or intradermal immunization of the animals with liver viral vaccines was not accompanied by the formation of autoantibodies and development of the pathological processes in the nervous system tissue. tthe greatest changes in the brain tissue in the form of circulatory disturbances and inflammatory-dystrophic phenomena in combination with high autoantibody titres in the blood were noted in intracardiac injection of smallpox vaccine and in subturbancessensitization with AK-Vaccine and the least (short-term circulatory disturbances, transitory signs of serous meningitis and neuron dystrophy against the background of low blood auto anitbody content)--in intracardiac injection of measles vaccine. Administration of live viral vaccines into the circulation of animals against the background of their sensitization with -vaccine led to reduction of blood autoantibody level coinciding in time with the periods of marked pathomorphological changes in the brain tissue.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), epinephrine, and dopamine strongly stimulated the motor activity of larval Spirometra mansonoides. By contrast, a cholinomimetic agent, arecoline, paralyzed the worms. There was some pharmacological specificity among the agonists but not with various antagonists. Acetylcholinesterase activity was present in both larval and adult Spirometra.
Rats were exposed to [1,2-14C] vinyl chloride. Liver RNA was isolated, hydrolyzed, and the nucleosides separated on Aminex-A-6. Besides the physiological bases and 1,N6-ethenoadenosine, radioactivity was also incorporated into 3,N4-ethenocytidine. Radioactive 3,N4-ethenocytidine moieties were also formed on incubation of polycytidylic acid with rat liver microsomes, NADPH and [14C] vinyl chloride. These alkylation mechanisms are consistent with the mutagenic and cancerogenic properties of vinyl chloride.
Neutral beta-galactosidase was partially purified from liver of normal controls, a patient with Niemann-Pick disease type A and the previously described patient with lactosyl ceramidosis using Concanavalin A-Sepharose adsorption and Sephadex G-100 gel filtration. The partially purified fractions were essentially free of galactosyl ceramide beta-galactosidase and GM1 beta-galactosidase activities. The normal and Niemann-Pick fractions were found to hydrolyze lactosyl ceramide, in the presence of sodium taurodeoxycholate, at a pH optimum of 5.6 as well as aryl beta-galactosides and aryl beta-glucosides at pH 6.2. The corresponding fraction from the lactosyl ceramidosis liver contained only 1--4% of the normal activity towards artificial substrates and lactosyl ceramide. Cross-reacting material identical to the normal was demonstrated in this fraction with antiserum raised against purified neutral beta-galactosidase, but no activity was observed in the precipitin line when stained with naphthol AS-LC-beta-galactoside or naphthol AS-LC-beta-glucoside. A similar deficiency of neutral beta-galactosidase activity was demonstrated in cultivated fibroblasts of the patient with lactosyl ceramidosis. Following adsorption on Concanavalin A-Sepharose and anti-GM1 beta-galactosidase antibody-Sepharose conjugates and chromatography on DEAE cellulose, fibroblast lysates from the patient exhibited 3% of normal activity towards 4-methyl-umbelliferyl beta-glucoside at pH 6.2 and 12% of normal activity towards lactosyl ceramide at pH 5.6. These data suggest that neutral beta-galactosidase may have an in vivo role in the cleavage of lactosyl ceramide and that a deficiency of this activity may be related to the lactosyl ceramide accumulation observed in the patient with lactosyl ceramidosis.
Methylamine dehydrogenase was purified in a homogeneous form from methylamine-grown Pseudomonas sp. J. The specific activity of the purified enzyme was 5.19 at 19 degrees C. The molecular weight was estimated to be 105 000, and the enzyme was composed of two kinds of subunit with molecular weights of 40 000 and 13 000, respectively. The enzyme contained little phosphorus, iron and copper. The enzyme had absorption maxima at 278, 330, 430 and 460 nm (shoulder). On addition of methylamine, the peaks at 430 and 460 nm decreased, while that at 330 nm increased. Primary amines served as substrates, but secondary and tertiary amines did not. Phenazine methosulfate was the most effective electron acceptor and oxygen was ineffective. The enzyme was inhibited by carbonyl reagents, cuprizone and HgCl2 but not by other chelators or sulfhydryl reagents. Some of other physical and biochemical properties of the enzyme were studied. These results show that the enzyme purified from Pseudomonas sp. J is essentially similar to the enzyme obtained from Pseudomonas AM1, although it differs slightly in some properties.
Any reasonable evaluation presupposes a precise question. Furthermore it is necessary to eliminate all factors of disturbance, which are able either to simulate or to mask a result of evaluation. The most important of these factors is the psychiatrist himself. Therefore, experimental designs have to taken in account the factor psychiatrist. Criteria of the effects of any drug must be relevant with regard to comparison of two or more drug effects. The reproduciability of criteria is very desirable, but a wish-fulfilment under the most circumstances. Because criteria should be independent and mutually exclusive, all scales like the Hamiltons one are not suitable for evaluation. Finally one should use as few criteria as possible. Models of evaluation are described for the most frequent questions in connection with clinical trials in psychopharmacology.
The possibility to calculate parameters of acid-base status derived by common laboratory devices without built-in computers is described. The calculation is carried out faster and more exactly than it is possible by nomograms, which is especially suitable when a great quantity of dates occurs. The number of programmable steps in some inexpensive pocket calculators is sufficient for this purpose; this type of "microcomputers" offers advantages of economy and small size so that calculations can be carried out immediately at the site where measurements are taken.
Twelve strains of encapsulated pneumococci isolated from patients with pneumococcal disease were examined for the presence of bacteriophage. Four of the strains yielded phage lytic for a noncapsulated indicator strain of pneumococcus. Three of the newly isolated bacteriophages differ serologically from pneumococcus bacteriophages described previously. The ability to yield lytic phage was lost by two of the lysogenic pneumococcal strains on repeated subculture.
Sorption properties of sarcolemma preparations isolated from skeletal muscles of normal and E-avitaminous rabbits were studied relative to organic ions. Analysis of isotherms of sarcolemma equilibrium binding of neutral red cations and turquoise direct lightfast "K" anions made it possible to determine the number of positively and negetively charged sorption centres, which fix the mentioned dyes. With E-avitaminous muscular dystrophy the number of the centres increases considerably. A larger number of the positively charged centres fixing the surquoise dye are found both in the control and in case of dystrophy. The calcium ions prevent the neutral red sorption and intensify the turquoise direct sorption. In the sarcolemma preparations isolated from the muscles of the E-avitaminous rabbits the content of calcium ions is almost twice as high and the number of sulphydryl groups is 30-40% less as compare to the normal level. The data presented evidence for structural changes in sarcolemma with E-avitaminous muscular dystrophy.
3-Aminopyridine mononucleotide, a nicotinamide mononucleotide analog, was prepared by enzymatic cleavage of 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide by a snake venom phosphodiesterase and isolated by means of ion exchange chromatography. The spectrophotometric and fluorometric properties of this analog were studied. Several anions were shown to quench the fluorescence intensity of this analog. pH was shown to have a pronounced effect on the fluorescence intensity. 3-Aminopyridine mononucleotide was shown to be a coenzyme-competitive inhibitor of yeast alcohol dehydrogenase. The 3-aminopyridine mononucleotide was diazotized with the use of nitrous acid. A time dependent irreversible inactivation of yeast alcohol dehydrogenase resulted from incubation with the diazotized 3-aminopyridine mononucleotide at pH 7.0. Incubation of the enzyme with NAD prior to the addition of the diazotized 3-aminopyridine mononucleotid protected the enzyme against inactivation.
The synthesis of certain 1.5-benzodiazepinediones, some of their oxygen-free analogues and a number of the 7-nitro derivatives is described. Condensation of 3.4-diaminopyridine with diethylmalonate instead of affording the expected pyridodiazepine, yielded an imidazopyridine, the structure of which was inferred from spectral data Nevertheless, the pyridodiazepine was obtained by condensing the diamino-heterocycle with malonyl dichloride.
The activity of purified DNA photolyase from Baker's yeast is enhanced by a compound (Activator (III)) obtained from yeast by chloroform extraction ion exchange chromatography and gel filtration. Thin layer chromatography and spectral data indicate that the compound is homogeneous. Activator III emits at 350 and 440 nm when excited at 290 nm, and emits at 440 nm when excited at 358 nm. After acid hydrolysis, emission at 440 nm is produced only by excitation at 358 nm, indicating that activator (III) contains two separate chromophoric moieties. The chromophore excited by 358 nm light has a pK of 9-11, while the other chromophore has a pK of 4-5, and possibly of 9-11. The enhancement of photolytic activity by activator (III) at a concentration equimolar with that of the enzyme and the similarity of the fluorescent spectra of the activator with that of heat-denatured photolyase, suggests that the activator may be the chromophore associated with the enzyme.
A variety of cells found in the pituitary and pineal glands, sympathetic nervous system and adrenal glands, the gut, pancreas, thyroid (C-cells), chemoreceptors (type I-Cells), lungs (P-cells), skin (melanocytes) and the urogenital tract have a common origin from the neural crest. These cells are programmed for neuro-endocrine function and, as a group, can be regarded as one of the physiological control systems. They secrete a variety of amine and peptide hormones and have common cytochemical characteristics from which the term APUD cell is derived. Tumours of these cells are referred to as 'apudomas' and may synthesise not only their own hormones but also those which are normally produced by other APUD cells. The relevant physiological properties of some of the peptides which have been described relatively recently are discussed and the principal clinical syndromes produced by the APUDomas are described.
The effect of pH on the culture respiration rate at different concentrations of glucose in the medium was studied. It was found that the hydrogen ions showed their effect irrespective of the subsrate concentration in the medium. In this connection a type of macrokinetic equations of the effect of pH on the growth and antibiotic biosynthesis was chosen. The constants of the model were determined.
From the scattered information about primary structures of aspartate proteinases the following general features appear: 1) Sequence determinations show that two catalytically active aspartic acid residues are located in highly conservative surroundings. 2) Zymogens have so far only been found for extracellular aspartate proteinases of the vertebrates. The zymogens from the gastric mucosa are converted into active enzymes by a limited proteolysis releasing 42 to 44 residues from the NH2-terminus. A common pattern of basic and apolar residues is observed in this NH2-terminal segment. 3) In the presently known structures gastric proteinases and their zymogens have about 40% of all residues in common. The sequence of penicillopepsin shows 18% of identity with the gastric proteinases.
The size and structure of the covalently closed circular chloroplast DNAs (ctDNA) from pea, lettuce, and spinach plants, have been studied by analytical ultracentrifugation. The values of so20,w,Na+ of the native and denatured forms of the open and closed circular DNAs from these plants have been determined. The absolute molecular weight of purified closed circular pea ctDNA monomers has been determined by buoyant equilibrium sedimentation to be 89.1 (S.D. +/- 0.7)-10(6). The value of the so20,w,Na+ of open circular pea ctDNA and its molecular weight, in conjunction with corresponding values for other sizes of circular DNA, has been used to derive an empirical relationship between so20,w,Na+ and molecular weight for open circular DNAs. Using this relationship, the molecular weights of lettuce and spinach ctDNAs have been determined to be 98.2 (S.D. +/- 1.5)-10(6) and 97.2 (S.D. +/- 1.5)-10(6), respectively. At pH values 12.7 and 13, closed circular lettuce and pea ctDNAs have been found to exist as mixtures of reversibly and irreversibly denatured closed circular DNAs.
1. The disposition and metabolism of 1-(4-carbamoyl[14C]methylphenoxy)-3-isopropylaminopan-2-ol (atenolol, Tenormin) has been studied in man following oral and intravenous doses. 2. Approx. 50% of an oral dose was eliminated in urine; the major radiolabelled component was atenolol (approx. 90%). Faecal extracts also contained largely unchanged atenolol, with small amounts of more polar metabolites. Biliary excretion of atenolol and its metabolites is not a major route of elimination in man. Metabolism of the compound is not extensive and route-dependent modes of metabolism do not appear to complicate the position. 3. Atenolol appeared to be the only major radiolabelled component in blood. 4. Oral doses of atenolol are incompletely absorbed (range 46-62%), even when formulated as a solution. 5. 1-[4-(C-Carbamoylhydroxymethyl)phenoxy]-3-isopropylaminopropan-2-ol was a minor urinary metabolite, which has only one tenth the activity of the parent compound as a beta-adrenergic blocking agent in the rat. 6. Pharmacological activity in man appears to be due to atenolol alone.
This retrospective study regarding prosthetic fitting in geriatric amputees showed that only about 50 per cent of the patients could be fitted with a prosthesis. The time interval from the amputation until the patients walked adequately with the prostheses was very long. This was due to problems with the healing of the stump, as well as insufficiencies in the medical organization. An increased coordination of the care of these patients before and after an amputation would improve the whole course of events. It is suggested that the main responsibility for these patients should be transferred to physicians, specialized in long-term care medicine.
A study was made of the effects of nomifensine, 4'-hydroxynomifensine and 3',4'-dihydroxynomifensine on dopamine receptors in rat striatum and nucleus accumbens, using the dopamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase assay. Nomifensine and its 4'-hydroxy metabolite were both inactive as dopaminergic agonists. 3',4'-dihydroxynomifensine was, however, a potent agonist, being approximately 2 to 4 times less active than dopamine. The effects of dopamine and of 3',4'-dihydroxynomifensine were blocked by fluphenazine. It is concluded that the dopaminergic activity of 3',4'-dihydroxynomifensine is dependent upon the presence of the two hydroxyl groups.
The vitelline envelope (VE) that surrounds an egg released from the ovary into the coelom of Xenopus laevis differs markedly, in structure and penetrability, from the VE surrounding an oviposited egg. In a coelomic egg, the filaments that form the VE are arranged in distinct fascicles or bundles. The exterior surface of the VE is irregular in contour and is permeated by channels. In an oviposited egg, the filaments are evenly dispersed and lack a fasciculated arrangement; the exterior surface is smooth and no channels are present. The fascicular arrangement of fibrils in the coelomic VE is maintained only at neutral pH, and is not visibly altered by the cortical reaction. VEs from coelomic eggs retain their fasciculated morphology after isolation from the egg. In an in vitro test system, sperm penetrated VEs isolated from oviposited eggs, but failed to penetrate VEs isolated from coelomic eggs. The structural transformation of the VE from the coelomic type to the oviposited type occurs in the first 1-cm segment of the oviduct, prior to addition of jelly to the egg. Neither intact jelly, solubilized jelly, nor jelly extracts were capable of altering the structural organization of coelomic VEs, suggesting that the structural transformation of the VE is effected by some oviducal factor other than jelly.
A high-molecular-weight (250 000) bile salt hydrolase (cholylglycine hydrolase, EC 3.5.-.-) was isolated and purified 128-fold from the "spheroplast lysate" fraction prepared from Bacteroids fragilis subsp. fragilis ATCC 25285. The intact enzyme had a molecular weight of approx. 250 000 as determined by gel infiltration chromatography. One major protein band, corresponding to a molecular weight of 32 500, was observed on 7% sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of pooled fractions from DEAE-cellulose column chromatography (128-fold purified). The pH optimum for the 64-fold purified enzyme isolated from Bio-Gel A 1.5 M chromatography was 4.2 and bile salt hydrolase activity measured in intact cell suspensions had a pH optimum of 4.5. Substrate specificity studies indicated that taurine and glycine conjugates of cholic acid, chenodeoxycholic acid and deoxycholic acid were readily hydrolyzed; however, lithocholic acid conjugates were not hydrolyzed. Substrate saturation kinetics were biphasic with an intermediate plateau (0.2--0.3 mM) and a complete loss of enzymatic activity was observed at high concentration for certain substrates. The presence or absence of 7-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase was absolutely correlated with that of bile salt hydrolase activity in six to ten strains and subspecies of B. fragilis.
The short circuit current as a function of Na concentration in both solutions was found to obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics under a variety of experimental conditions. Values of maximal transport rate (Im) and half-maximal Na concentrations (Kt) were determined from these experiments. Three type of results were obtained: 1) Im and Kt both decreased by approximately the same fraction when the pH of both solutions was reduced by increasing PCO2, 2) Im decreased and Kt increased when the external pH was decreased, and 3) Im increased with ADH and theophylline, decreased with external Ca, and Kt remained unchanged. Various criteria were utilized to determine that these were properties of the entry barrier for Na into the "transport pool." The results are explained in terms of a model that separates three different types of actions on the entry barrier: 1) competition of Na with other ions in the external solution for entry, 2) modulation of the number of sites available for Na translocation by changing the cytoplasmic pH, and 3) alterations in the rate of Na translocation caused by changes in the Na permeability or the electrochemical gradient across the entry barrier.
Acetyl-CoA carboxylase in rat liver homogenates was activated in vitro in a time- and temperature-dependent manner. The activity of acetyl-CoA carboxylase in rat liver preparations was determined in a 1-min assay to preclude the possibility of citrate activation of the enzyme during the assay period. Activation of the enzyme occurred more rapidly in liver preparations continuously maintained at ambient or greater temperatures than in homogenates of liver which had been chilled. High speed supernatant (105,000 X g, 60 min) did not heat-activate, and reconstitution of the heat-activatable 27,000 X g, 20-min, fraction by recombining the high speed pellet with the high speed supernatant only partially restored the heat activatability. Elution of the 105,000 X g supernatant from Sephadex G-25 resulted in an enzyme preparation which was heat-activatable. Addition of boiled 105,000 X g supernatant to the Sephadex G-25-treated enzyme again prevented heat activation. Dilution of the enzyme 5-fold did not prevent heat activation.
The effect of the procedure of the enzyme binding with the carrier on the properties of the heterogenous catalyst obtained by covalent binding of penicillinamidase (PA) with cellulose 2-(3'-amino-4'-methoxyphenyl)-sulphonylethyl ether by means of the bifunctional reagent, i.e. glutaric aldehyde was studied. It was shown that the amount of the bound enzyme increased with a rise in the amount of the enzyme taken for the binding, while the binding efficiency characterizing the part of the active enzyme in the total amount of the bound PA decreased practically 2 times. The use of the enzyme preparations with different purify levels for the binding provided differentiation of the effects resulting in the activity loss on immobilization. In other words it provided separate estimation of the inactivation effect of the matrix and the immobilization procedure, as well as the interaction of the enzyme molecules with each other and other protein molecules.
Gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase, which consists of two nonidentical subunits, is rapidly inactivated with respect to its transpeptidase and hydrolase activities by the gamma-glutamyl analogs 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine and L-azaserine. Inactivation, which is prevented by gamma-glutamyl substrates (but not by acceptor substrates), is accelerated by maleate, which was previously shown to enhance utilization of glutamine by transpeptidase. 6-Diazo-5-oxo--norleucine reacts specifically, covalently, and stoichiometrically at the gamma-glutamyl site of the enzyme, which was localized through studies with 6-diazo-5-OXO-[14C]norleucine to the light subunits of both the transpeptidase of rat kidney (which has subunits of molecular weights 22,000 and 46,000) and the transpeptidase of human kidney (which has subunits of molecular weights 22,000 and 62,000). The findings, which indicate that these enzymes have similar gamma-glutamyl binding subunits, are relevant to the structure-function relationships of this membrane-bound enzyme and its physiological role.
Water-soluble polyelectrolytes in interaction with proteins are described. These polyelectrolytes make it possible to investigate enzyme-catalyzed reactions in cooled mixed solvents without the usual effects of their organic solvent component  on enzyme specific activity. The applicability of techniques developed is illustrated by results obtained on several systems. The possibility of an electrostatic "sorting out" of solvents and its potentialities in cryoenzymology are discussed.
In order to establish whether alcohol in amounts in amounts customarily imbibed during social drinking causes gastro-oesophageal reflux, 12 healthy young individuals, without symptoms of gastro-oesophageal reflux, were studied twice. Each time, distal oesophageal pH was monitored continuously for three hours after a standard meal which included either 180 ml 100 proof vodka or 180 ml water. The order of studies with and without alcohol was random. Peak blood alcohol concentrations ranged between 0.63 and 1.29 g/l. Eleven of the 12 subjects refluxed more after alcohol; and the difference in mean reflux scores for studies with and without alcohol was highly significant. We conclude that relatively modest quanttities of alcohol induce gastro-oesophageal reflux in healthy people.
Messenger RNA activities for two cortisol-inducible enzymes, tyrosine aminotransferase and tryptophan oxygenase, have been determined by translation in a wheat germ system. The effects of cycloheximide on the two mRNA activities have been evaluated. Cortisol leads to an increase of the translatable mRNAs for tyrosine aminotransferase and tryptophan oxygenase with a maximum at approximately 6 h. Cycloheximide was administered 4 h after treatment with cortisol; 2 h later, the activities of tyrosine aminotransferase and tryptophan oxygenase mRNA had increased five-fold and two-fold, respectively, compared to the activities reached with cortisol alone. Thereafter the amount of the two translatable mRNAs declined, though 14 h after cortisol administration the mRNA activities were still several fold higher than in control animals. Application of alpha-amanitin together with cycloheximide did not prevent an increased accumulation of specific translatable mRNAs. The increase in tyrosine aminotransferase and tryptophan oxygenase activity by cortisol was immediately blocked by cycloheximide. Whereas tryptophan oxygenase activity rapidly declined after cycloheximide application, tyrosine aminotransferase activity remained at the same level. Approximately 4 h thereafter, both enzyme activities increased again.
Data from steady-state kinetic analysis of yeast K+-activated aldehyde dehydrogenase are consistent with a ternary complex mechanism. Evidence from alternative substrate analysis and product-inhibition studies supports an ordered sequence of substrate binding in which NAD+ is the leading substrate. A preincubation requirement for NAD+ for maximum activity is also consistent with the importance of a binary enzyme-NAD+ complex. Dissociation constant for enzyme-NAD+ complex determined kinetically is in reasonable agreement with that determined by direct binding. The order of substrate addition proposed here differs from that proposed for a yeast aldehyde dehydrogenase previously reported. Different methods of purification produced an enzyme that showed similar kinetic characteristics to those reported here.
In the field of research into new methods, we attempted to determine the primary effect, i.e. neuroleptic effects following the intensity of reactions to stimulation in patients undergoing microsurgery of the ear, comparing in particular the quantities of analgesic necessary and used during general anesthetic to ensure both clinically visible protection and, above all, suppression of the effects of stimulation at the level of recordings of arterial and venous pressures. This permits, in our opinion, one to evaluate the dose necessary but also, determine whether or not a drug belongs to the category of neuroleptics which are interesting for the anesthetist.
This study investigated whether six women who previously had received 15 sessions of group systematic desensitization (SD) for their sexual anxiety would report additional treatment gains from participation in a sexual-enhancement workshop with their partners. After group SD six couples participated in six, 1 1/2 hour weekly group sessions. The women reported a significant increase in marital adjustment and a significant decrease in sexual anxiety. A significant decrease was found in the women's sexual nonresponsiveness as perceived by their partners. Future studies should (1) contrast the effects of group SD with women alone versus couple group treatment, (2) determine which treatment components are most influential for defined subject types, and (3) obtain data on men's sexual functioning.
Recovery in vivo after 51Cr labeling, platelet morphology, and platelet aggregation were studied with platelet concentrates (PC) stored for transfusion under carefully controlled conditions. PC were prepared to a final volume of 50 ml from whole blood anticoagulated with citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD). The platelet count was kept between 0.8 and 1.6 X 10(12) platelets/liter. The PC were stored in bags constructed of polyvinylchloride (PVC) or polyethylene (PE) at 22 degrees C for 72 hr. The bags were placed on a horizontal shaker or a ferris wheel for agitation during storage. No significant changes in pH or platelet count were observed during storage. PC stored on the wheel showed moderate loss of viability and a marked deterioration of platelet morphology and aggregation compared to the shaker. PC stored on the shaker in bags made of PE showed better aggregation with ADP and thrombin but had the same viability and morphology as PC in bags constructed of PVC. Maintenance of normal platelet morphology as determined by phase-contrast microscopy, extent of shape change response, and the size distribution according to the Coulter Counter correlated with recovery in vivo.
A new manual method for the determination of carbon dioxide content in serum and plasma, based on the potentiometric measurement of carbonate, is proposed and evaluated. The new method offers good precision and accuracy in the physiological concentration range as shown by detailed studies on synthetic samples, reference standards, and actual patient samples. Moreover, the method yields results which correlate very well with analyses carried out using various conventional techniques. It is expected that the proposed method could be used for manual determinations of CO2 content, especially where rapid start-up time, minimal sample treatment, and low cost are of importance.
In previous studies the phenyl-4-piperidinylmethanone moiety was shown to be a neuroleptic pharmacophore. A short series of [1-[3-(phenothiazin-10-yl)propyl]-4-piperidinyl]phenylmethanones was prepared and tested for neuroleptic activity using the blockade of d-amphetamine lethality in aggregated mice and suppression of conditioned avoidance behavior as the end points. Most compounds were shown to be potent neuroleptic agents and two were found to possess a long duration of action.
Mice, administered haloperidol (3 mg/kg/d) in their drinking water for 21 days, displayed, 4 days after cessation of the haloperidol-treatment, marked locomotor stimulation to clonidine (100 or 500 mug/kg) which lasted for about 6 h. 25 mug clonidine/kg was inactive. Premedication with FLA-63 (25 mg/kg) blocked the difference in stimulation after clonidine between the haloperidol- and vehicle-treated animals, but locomotor activity was still present in both groups. Haloperidol-treated animals displayed a supersensitive response to dexamphetamine. The difference in stimulation produced by dexamphetamine in the two groups was completely blocked by phenoxybenzamine (2.5 mg/kg), phentolamine (10 mg/kg), which drugs did not, however, block the locomotor stimulation produced by dexamphetamine in vehicle-treated animals. Pimozide (3 mg/kg) blocked all locomotor stimulation produced by dexamphetamine in both vehicle- and haloperidol-treated groups, while 1 mg/kg completely blocked the dexamphetamine response in vehicle-treated animals but not in haloperidol-treated animals. FLA-63 (25 mg/kg) blocked the difference in response between the haloperidol- and vehicle-treated groups to dexamphetamine, but did not antagonise the stimulation in the vehicle-treated animals. The data suggest that long-term haloperidol treatment leads to the development of "supersensitive" adrenergic receptors in the central nervous system, which, appropriately stimulated, effect an increase in locomotor activity. Moreover, the results indicate that a large component of the supersensitive response to dexamphetamine observed after long-term haloperidol-treatment is due to adrenergic receptor supersensitivity. However, the dopamine receptor (which was shown to be supersensitive to apomorphine) is of fundamental importance because phenoxybenzamine and phentolamine, while blocking the supersensitive response to dexamphetamine, failed to block the response to dexamphetamine in vehicle-treated animals, which was, however, blocked by pimozide.
Dunaliella tertiolecta (marine) and D. viridis (halophilic) were each trained by serial transfer to grow at salt concentrations previously regarded as the other's domain. D. viridis then had a salt optimum at 1.0-1.5 M sodium chloride whereas that for D. tertiolecta was less than 0-2 M. Nevertheless D. tertiolecta grew faster than the halophil at all salt concentrations up to 3.5 M, the highest at which they were compared. Both species accumulate glycerol, which is necessary for growth at elevated salinities and which responds in its content to water activity (aw) rather than specifically to salt concentration. Variation in glycerol content is a metabolic process which occurs in the dark from accumulated starch as well as photosynthetically. Regulation of glycerol content by aw does not require protein synthesis. The NADP-specific glycerol dehydrogenase of each of the algae is likely to be directly involved in the regulation of glycerol content. Kinetic studies, together with those described in an earlier publication, show that the enzyme has regulatory properties and that both glycerol and dihydroxyacetone act as effectors as well as reactants. A mechanism of the reaction is tentatively proposed.
The catecholamine-forming and metabolizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, dopa decarboxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, and catecholamine-O-methyltransferase, as well as the endogenous inhibitor of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase were compared in the brains of schizophrenics and controls. While there were no statistically significant differences in the enzyme or inhibitor activity between groups, tbre was a decided trend toward a decreased enzyme activity in the brains of the schizophrenics. From another set of control brains it was found that changes in human enzyme activity following death are variable and may be dependent on how the brains were handled. Thus, it is unclear whether the apparent differences between schizophrenics and controls were present when they were alive or occurred after death.
The partial purification of two intracellular proteinases from the protozoan parasite Entamoeba histolytica is reported. One of these enzymes is an acid proteinase exhibiting maximum activity at pH 3.5 (hemoglobin substrate), is little affected by a range of inhibitors or activators, and is presumed to be similar to cathepsin D. Also present is a neutral proteinase exhibiting optimum activity at pH 6.0 (azocasein) but only poorly hydrolyzing either hemoglobin or serum albumen. This latter enzyme displayed no metal ion requirement, but was markedly inhibited by thiol-blocking agents and activated by free sulhydryl-containing compounds.
While V/S plots of phospholipase A1 show a phase transition, kinetic behaviour of phospholipase A2 acting in the same concentration range is hyperbolic. However after phospholipase A2 has been solubilized from the plasma membranes by 1 M NaCl, the V/S curve shows a phase transition. Membrane-bound phospholipase A1 shows a narrow optimum pH at 8.5 -9, while phospholipase A2 activity presents only small variations between pH 7 and 9.5. Towards exogenous phospholipids at the optimum pH 8.5 of phospholipase A1, the specific activity of the latter is 3-fold higher than phospholipase A2 specific activity. On the contrary towards endogenous phospholipids, phospolipase A2 activity is higher than phospholipase A2 activity. Moreover labeled endogenous PE hydrolysis by phospholipase A2 is decreased by addition of non labeled exogenous PE into the incubation medium. All these data suggest that the active site of phospholipase A1 is turned to the outside and acts only on exogenous substrates: for phospholipase A2 it would be inside, and exogenous phospholipids could be hydrolyzed only after penetrating the membrane.
In a patient under general anesthesia, the occurrence of bronchospasm can be readily treated provided the cause is diagnosed early. The corrective drugs to dilate are readily available: atropine, epinephrine and theophylline. In the choice of preanesthetics, anesthetics and adjuvants, it is important to remember that there are differences in the bronchomotor effects; most curareform drugs constrict except pancuronium; most inhalational anesthetics dilate in contrast to intravenous anesthetics. In the event that bronchospasm cannot be re relieved by drugs, intubation and assisted breating can be applied to maintain adequate gas exchange in the alveoli.
31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectra at 145.7 MHZ were obtained of concentrated suspensions of E. coli cells. The position of the Pi resonance was used to determine the pH, and in most experiments it was possible to distinguish the intracellular (pHin) and extracellular (pHex) values. During respiration pHin approached 7.55, while pHex varied from 6.0 to 8.0. With succinate as a carbon source and in a N2 environment, pHin - pHex. Upon addition of glucose, pHin greater than pHex. In the presence of an ATPase (adenosinetriphosphatase; ATP phosphohydrolase; EC 3.6.1.3) inhibitor dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, pHin remained equal to pHex even in the presence of glucose. In other experiments, oxygenation brought pHin above pHex even in the presence of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. These experiments are consistent with Mitchell's hypothesis that, first, delta pH can be created by the reversal of the ATPase reaction and, second, that protons are pumped outward during respiration. In addition to Pi, about 10 more resonances were resolved, several of which were assigned to different phosphate metabolites.
Vinylacetyl-CoA delta-isomerase from Clostridium kluyveri grown on ethanol/acetate was purified 32-fold. The enzyme is rather labile. All experiments were conducted with the substrate analog thioester of vinylacetic acid and N-acetylchysteamine (vinylacetyl-SEtNAc (1 f)). 3-Butinoyl-SEtNAc is a strong inhibitor of the isomerase. The hydrogen transfer from the alpha-position of vinylacetyl-SEtNAc to the gamma-position of 2-butenoyl-SEtNAc (1f leads to 2 f) occurs partially intramolecularly (40-50%) as shown by experiments in 3HOH/H2O, 2H2O and 3HOH/2H2O as well as by experiments with [2,3-3H]vinylacetyl-SEtNAc. Only 0.07 atoms of tritium are incorporated into the gamma-position of 2f when the isomerisation takes place in 3HOH/H2O. The extent of intramolecularity is in agreement with results of experiments conducted in 2H2O with whole cells [4]. The reaction 1f leads to 2f shows no or only negligiebl reversibility and at least no considerable isotope effect.
Multiple endocrine adenomatosis, Type I was initially diagnosed in a 35-year-old woman with primary chief cell hyperplasia of the parathyroids. Approximately 5 years later, vaginal bleeding developed and a well-differentiated endometrial adenocarcinoma was recognized. An adenomatoid tumor of the uterus was discovered in addition to a nonfunctional islet cell tumor of the pancreas. Multiple endocrine adenomatosis is reviewed in relation to possible gynecologic neoplasms.
The HCO-3-stimulated Mg2+ -ATPase activity in red cell ghost fragments was investigated. Increasing the HCO-3 concentration in the incubation medium resulted in increased ATPase activity. NaHCO3 appeared to be more effective than KHCO3 in this regard. The ATPase activities were slightly stimulated by increases in ionic strength and utilized ITP almost as readily as ATP. A Mg/ATP ratio of 1.0 and a pH of 7.6 yielded maximum activity. These properties are of interest since the present enzyme is the only unquestionable instance where a HCO-3 ATPase is located in the surface membrane of a cell.
A case of clostridial endomyometritis and sepsis necessitating total abdominal hysterectomy which occurred 12 hours following abortion induced with intraamniotic administration of prostaglandin F2 alpha and laminaria tent insertion is discussed. Cultures from cervical, blood, and surgical specimens all yielded Clostridium perfringens. Intrauterine contamination with this microorganism most likely followed the insertion of laminaria tents through the cervical os, which was colonized with C. perfringens. Since C. perfringens may be present in the microflora of the lower female genital tract, great care must be taken to cleanse this area prior to intracervical laminaria tent insertion.
Cardiovascular dynamics and left ventricular work were evaluated in 15 resting, standing, and treadmill-exercised calves before and at periodic intervals after their natural hearts (NH) were replaced with an artificial heart (AH). Standing produced increases in heart rate, cardiac output, oxygen uptake, and left ventricular work and decreases in mean aortic pressure and systemic vascular resistance in NH calves which were more marked with exercise. AH calves had higher aortic pressures, cardiac output, systemic vascular resistance, oxygen uptake, and left ventricular work during resting conditions in the first 2 postoperative weeks than did NH calves, which gradually returned to values similar to the latter by the fifth week after operation. Exercise was not tolerated early after AH implantation, but was after 5 to 6 weeks. Our results indicate that AH calves increase cardiac output with exercise by reducing systemic vascular resistance, whereas NH animals respond similarly, but also increase heart rate. The data suggest that a marked elevation in systemic vascular resistance early after AH implantation increases left ventricular work and prevents adequate rises in cardiac output to all but minor increases in metabolic requirements.
In vitro effects of certain neurohumors, on ultrastructure of 14 days old chick embryonic thyroid gland, has been studied. When the chick embryonic thyroid gland was cultivated in vitro, in the medium containing neurohumors like acetylcholine, adrenaline and histamine for a definite period in a particular sequence and dose, has resulted almost similar ultrastructural changes as seen in the hyperactive thyroid gland.
An improved method for quantitating N-demethylantipyrine (N-DEM-AP) in urine by gas chromatography or gas chromatography-mass spectrometry has been developed. Recovery of greater than 90% of N-DEM-AP was achieved by extraction of the sample at pH 1 after addition of 3-amino-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one. The coefficient of variation of replicate analyses was 8%. N-DEM-AP was excreted in the urine as a glucuronic acid conjugate. This conjugate was isolated from the urine of an individual receiving antipyrine and purified. The NMR and mass-spectral data are consistent with the conjugate being an O-glucuronide of N-DEM-AP in its enol form.
We made continuous fetal pH-measurement in 50 patients and showed a good correlation between tissue pH and umbilical artery, umbilical vein and the fetal scalp blood pH. There were practical problems in the use of the glass pH electrode.
The experimental data show that absorption of ATG with liver-kidney homogenate and CLL and LCL cells stepwise removed the hemopoietic toxicity, whereas the specific activity against T lymphocytes remained. Although the mode of action of absorbed ATG could not be tested in the first clinical case, the successful experiments in rodents together with the fact that the incubation treatment was tolerated by the patient may provide a new way of preventing fatal GVH reactions in man.
This paper presents the first study of conformational changes in the subfractions of calf thymus H1. H1 was fractionated by the method of Kincade and Cole (Kincade, J. M., and Cole, R.D. (1966), J. Biol. Chem. 241. 5790) using a very shallow Gdn-HC1 gradient. A possible new H1 subfraction, about 5--8% of the H1, has been found and characterized by amino acid analysis and electrophoresis. The effects of salt concentration and pH on the conformation of each of the four major subfractions have been studied by measuring the fluorescence anisotropy of the tyrosine emission and the circular dichroism (CD) of the peptide bond. Upon the addition of salt to aqueous solutions at neutral pH, all four subfractions show an instantaneous change in fluorescence anisotropy, fluorescence intensity, tyrosine absorbance, and CD. The folding associated with this instantaneous change is highly cooperative, and involves the region of the molecule containing the lone tyrosine, which becomes buried in the folded form. The folding of subfraction 3a is more sensitive to salt than the other major subfractions. Upon folding, approximately 13% of the residues of subfractions 1b and 2 form alpha and beta structure; 3a and 3b have approximately 16% of the residues in alpha and beta structures. There is no evidence for interactions between the subfractions. In salt-free solutions, each of the four major subfractions show very little change in conformation in going from low to neutral pH, but each shows a very sharp transition near pH 9. This transition gives rise to a marked increase in fluorescence anisotropy and fluorescence intensity, and involves the formation of both alpha and beta strucute in a manner similar to that of the salt-induced state.
Oxygen carriage and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) levels have been measured in the blood of seven species of Australian marsupials ranging in size from 35 to 0.03 kg. They were Red and Grey Kangaroos, Wallaroo, Tammar Wallaby, Brush-tailed possum, Potoroo, and Brown Marsupial Mouse. Oxygen affinity decreased with decrease in adult body size, standard P50 (at 36 C) varying from 24.6 torr in the largest (Red Kangaroo) to 41.9 torr in the smallest (Brown Marsupial Mouse). The relationship between P50 and body size is similar to the relationship which has been described previously for eutherian mammals. The Bohr factor (--deltalog P50/deltapH) and value for Hill n were generally in the range found for other land-dwelling mammals. All species had 2,3-DPG in their erythrocytes acting as a regulator of oxygen affinity. The polymorphism at position beta 2 in hemoglobin of the Grey Kangaroo was shown to affect the respiratory properties of the molecule. When beta 2 = histidine, which has a positively charged side chain, erythrocyte 2,3-DPG was higher, and P50 was higher, than when beta 2 = glutamine which has a neutral side chain.
Previous studies in vivo and with isolated perfused rat livers have suggested that the deleterious effect of ethanol on hepatic pyridoxal 5'-phosphate metabolism is mediated by acetaldehyde. Inasmuch as acetaldehyde has no effect on the synthesis of pyridoxal phosphate, it has also been postulated that acetaldehyde accelerates pyridoxal phosphate degradation by displacing this coenzyme from binding proteins, which protect it against hydrolysis. To test these hypotheses, studies have been performed with isolated rat hepatocytes, subcellular fractions of rat liver, and human erythrocytes. Ethanol oxidation lowered the pyridoxal phosphate content of isolated liver cells when acetaldehyde oxidation was inhibited by either disulfiram or prior treatment of rats with cyanamide. Additions of 7.5 mM acetaldehyde alone at 40-min intervals to cell suspensions decreased hepatic pyridoxal phosphate content only slightly because acetaldehyde was rapidly metabolized. However, when acetaldehyde oxidation and reduction were inhibited by cyanamide treatment and by 4-methyl-pyrazole and isobutyramide, respectively, a 40% decrease in hepatic pyridoxal phosphate content was observed in 80 min of incubation. In equilibrium dialysis experiments, acetaldehyde, 7.5 and 15 mM, displaced protein-bound pyridoxal phosphate in undialyzed hepatic cytosol and in hemolysate supernate containing added pyridoxal phosphate. In the presence of alkaline phosphatase, acetaldehyde accelerated the degradation of pyridoxal phosphate in dialyzed hemolysate supernate and hepatic cytosol with added pyridoxal phosphate. Acetaldehyde also inhibits tyrosine aminotransferase. The kinetics of inhibition were mixed competitive-noncompetitive with respect to pyridoxal phosphate. These observations support the hypothesis that the deleterious effect of ethanol oxidation on pyridoxal phosphate metabolism is mediated at least in part by acetaldehyde which displaces this coenzyme from protein binding, thereby enhancing its degradation.
A number of enzymes and reactions of glycolysis, pentose-phosphate cycle and degradation of pyruvic acid in strains of F. coccineum with various levels of antibiotic production was studied comparatively. The experiments showed that highly productive strains were characterized by higher activity of the NADP-deficient enzymes of the pentoze-phosphate cycle as compared to the low active strains. The activity levels of glycolytic enzymes, such as fructose-diphosphate-aldolase and 3-phosphoglycerolaldehydehydrogenase did not practically differ. Significant differences were found in the reactions of puryvic acid degradation: the activity of cytoplasmic pyruvatedecarboxylase in the mutant with high antibiotic production level was lower than that in the low productive strain, while oxidation of the pyruvate of the mitochondrial fraction was on the contrary more intensive than in the highly productive strain. Therefore, metabilism in the strains studied was characterized by ever-increasing biochemical changes with an increase in their antibiotic productivity. Lowering of the growth rate of the mutants as their capacity for antibiotic supersynthesis increased and subsequently the anabolic processes became more intensive was accompanied by increasing derepression of the key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism and in particular NADR-deficient dehydrogenase of the pentose cycle and pyruvatedehydrogenase, significant for fusidin biosynthesis and providing production of the antibiotic of steroid nature by cofactor NADP-H and acetyl-KoA, the primary precursor.
1. The responses of spontaneously active single neurones in the substantia nigra and overlying mesencephalic reticular formation have been analysed during the electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral caudate nucleus. Experiments were performed in rats anaesthetized with urethane or pentobarbitone. All recordings were made extracellularly with multi-barrelled glass micropipettes which were also used to test neuronal responsiveness to electrophoretically administered substances. The micropipette tip position was marked and the distribution of neurones studied has been analysed. 2. Single shock stimulation of the caudate nucleus inhibited neuronal activity in the substantia nigra (270/320 cells: mean latency 5-4 msec) and in the mesencephalic reticular formation (62/72 cells: mean latency 16-6 msec). However, these effects were often accompanied by periods of excitation. In pentobarbitone anaesthetized animals the latency and duration of these substantia nigra inhibitions was increased. 3. Compared with the zona reticulata, fewer neurones in the zona compacta of the substantia nigra responded to caudate stimulation in both urethane or pentobarbitone anaesthetized animals. 4. The activity of most cells was depressed by electrophoretically administered GABA or glycine and increased by acetylcholine or glutamate. Neurones of the mesencephalic reticular formation were less sensitive to GABA and glycine than substantia nigra neurones. Within the substantia nigra, both zona compacta and zona reticulata neurones were more sensitive to GABA than to glycine. Over-all, glutamate was a more potent excitant than acetylcholine (ACh). 5. Electrophoretic bicuculline methochloride (BMC) consistently reduced GABA but not glycine depression of substantia nigra neurones. Approximately twice as much BMC was required to reduce the endogenous inhibition of the same substantia nigra neurones and the amplitude of concomitantly evoked positive field potential as was required to abolish exogenous GABA responses. Some evoked substantia nigra inhibitions were resistant to BMC. 6. Electrophoretic strychnine consistently reduced glycine but not GABA depression of substantia nigra neurones, and did not modify caudate evoked inhibition of these neurones or the accompanying field potential. 7. The results support the concept of a slowly conducting caudato-nigral pathway which has both facilitatory and inhibitory components. The inhibitory pathway uses GABA as the neurotransmitter. The identity of the possible excitatory transmitter is unknown. The monosynaptic nature of this pathway is uncertain and the possible contribution of other bicuculline insensitive nigral inhibitory processes is discussed.
Wild type strains of Rhodopseudomonas capsulata typically can use N2, NH+4, or various nitrogenous organic compounds as N sources for photosynthetic growth. One class of mutants selected for inability to grow on N2 (Nif-) also shows simultaneous loss of capacity to obtain N from numerous organic substrates. When supplied at relatively high concentrations, ammonia can be used as the sole N source for growth of such strains. Enzymatic analysis of one mutant (W11) indicates that the pleiotropic effect on N nutrition is neither due to detectable alteration in the activities of nitrogenase or the initial enzymes responsible for bulk assimilation of ammonia (glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthase) nor to absence of systems required for catabolism of organic N sources. The phenotype of W11 (Nit-; defective in N metabolism) appears to result from loss of ability to grow using low concentrations of ammonia (supplied externally or generated in vivo).
The practical stages in the construction of mandibular overlay dentures, with and without precision attachment anchors, are described and illustrated in detail. The importance of post-insertion maintenance, continuing effective oral hygiene and patient care, as a prerequisite for a successful overlay denture experience, is emphasized.
A comparative study of cell cytosol alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) from yeast Torulopsis candida IBFM-Y-127 grown on glucose and hexadecane which were the only source of carbon, was made. In both cases ADH had a pH optimum within the range of 7.0--10.0, when various normal primary alcohols (C2--C16) were used. The enzyme was active only in the presence of NAD, which cannot be substituted by NADP. The total activity of ADH decreased approximately 8-fold when the length of hydrocarbon radicals was changed from C2 up to C16. When the cells were grown on hexadecane, only ethyl, n-buthyl, n-amyl and n-hexyl alcohols were active as substrates. The dehydration rate of each alcohol was far lower than that for the cytosol of glucose-grown cells. In the latter case the enzyme activity also decreased with an increase in the alcohol radical from C2 to C6. In all cases studied methyl alcohol and cyclic (cinnamyl alcohol--C8) alcohol were not dehydrated at all. Disc-electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel, involving gel colouration for the assay of enzyme activity showed that glucose--grown cell cytosol contained three forms of ADH. One of those forms was highly active when short--chain normal primary alcohols were used; this form may be probably regarded as "classical" ADH (EC 1.1.1.1). The two other forms caused intensive dehydration of long-chain alcohols (the best substrates were C7--C10 alcohols for one form and C10--C14 for the others). The two forms of ADH are probably isoenzymes of octanol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.73). Cytosol of cells grown on n-alcane, had a reduced number of ADH forms. The data obtained are discussed in terms of the regulatory role of carbon and energy source (glucose or hexadecane) in the redistribution of alcohol dehydrogenases between structural components of cells (mitochondria) and cytosol.
1 A new in vitro preparation, the isolated lung strip of the cat, is described for investigating the direct effect of drugs on the smooth muscle of the peripheral airways of the lung. The preparation comprises a thin strip of lung parenchyma which can be mounted in a conventional organ bath for isometric tension recording. Its pharmacological responses have been characterized and compared with the isolated tracheal preparation of the cat. 2 The lung strip exhibited an intrinsic tone which was relaxed by catecholamines, aminophylline and flufenamate. It was contracted strongly by histamine, prostaglandin F2alpha, acetylcholine, compound 48/80, potassium depolarizing solution and alternating current field stimulation. In contrast, the cat trachea was unresponsive to histamine and prostaglandin F2alpha and did not exhibit an intrinsic tone. 3 (-)-Isoprenaline and (-)-adrenaline were much more potent in relaxing the lung strip than the trachea. The potency order of relaxation responses to isoprenaline, adrenaline and (+/-)-noradrenaline in the lung strip was isoprenaline greater than adrenaline greater than noradrenaline but in the trachea was isoprenaline greater than noradrenaline greater than or equal to adrenaline. 4 beta2-Adrenoceptor selective agonists salbutamol and terbutaline were more potent in the lung strip than the trachea, suggesting beta2-adrenoceptors predominated in the lung strip. Propranolol was equipotent in inhibiting isoprenaline relexations of the lung strip and trachea, whereas practolol was much less effective in inhibiting lung strip than trachea, further supporting a predominance of beta2-adrenoceptors in lung strip and beta1-adrenoceptors in trachea. 5 Strong Schultz-Dale type contractions were elicited in both lung strips and trachea by Ascaris lumbricoides antigen in actively sensitized cats. The initial phase of the contractile response of the lung strip following challenge was shown to be due to histamine release and was absent in the trachea. The delayed phase of the contraction which took several minutes to develop in both the mepyramine-treated lung strip and trachea was not due to prostaglandins E1, F2alpha or bradykinin, the probable mediator being slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis (SRS-A). 6 It is concluded that the isolated lung strip of the cat is useful as an in vitro model for investigating the effect of drugs on the smooth muscle of the peripheral airways of the lungs.
Problems of suicide during treatment in an internal geriatric hospital are discussed. Particular attention is given to possibilities of preventation.
CSF HCO3- increases more than plasma HCO3- in hypercapnia, and there are at least two sources for the CSF HCO3- increase--one derived from the simultaneous increase in plasma HCO3-, and the other, HCO3-formed from hydration of CO2 in the choroid plexus and glia and susceptible to inhibition by acetazolamide (J. Appl. Physiol. 38: 504-512, 1975). It was proposed that the H+ formed in the CNS in CO2 hydration is actively exchanged for plasma Na+ utilizing the Na-K ATPase pump. H+ transport from the CNS was therefore studied in four groups of dogs breathing 5% CO2 at constant VA for 4 h with repeated injections of saline, acetazolamide 5 mg/ml, ouabain 0.1 mg/ml, and acetazolamide and ouabain together into lateral cerebral ventricles. Arterial HCO3-increased 2.5 meq/l at 4 h of hypercapnia in all groups. CSF HCO3-increased 5.8 meq/l in the saline-injected animals, but it increased only about 2 meq/l and equaled plasma HCO3- rise in the other three groups. Therefore CNS HCO3- formation in hypercapnia can be blocked by inhibiting the CO2 hydration reaction with acetazolamide or by blocking H+ removal by inhibiting Na-K ATPase with ouabain. The data support the thesis of active H+ removal from the CNS in exchange for plasma Na+ in hypercapnia.
Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) and tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activities were determined in rat liver cell lines after frozen storage, long-term culture, and transformation in vitro. Levels of AHH activity after 17 months in frozen storage were comparable to levels prior to freezing. During long-term culture the AHH levels of the cell lines tended to decrease. Transformed lines had variable levels of AHH activity. Cell lines retained measurable TAT activity following long-term culture and frozen storage. TAT activity of transformed cells was comparable to that of normal lines. Prolonged frozen storage did not induce transformation up to one year.
A central eight-stranded beta-pleated sheet is the main feature of the polypeptide backbone folding in dihydrofolate reductase. The innermost four strands and two bridging helices are geometrically similar to but are connected in a different way from those in the dinucleotide binding domains found in nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide-linked dehydrogenases. Methotrexate is bound in a 15-angstrom-deep cavity with the pteridine ring buried in a primarily hydrophobic pocket, although a strong interaction occurs between the side chain of aspartic acid 27 and N(1), N(8), and the 2-amino group of methotrexate.
The activity of amylase, sucrase, protease and lipase has been examined in Wallago attu, Clarias batrachus and Labeo rohita. The optimum pH value for carbohydrases ranges from 5.0 to 7.0 and that for trypsin between pH 6.8 and 7.8. Lipase is active at a slightly more alkaline medium. The optimum pH for a given enzyme varies in different sections of the alimentary canal of the same fish and also from species to species. Variations are also found in the optimum substrate concentration for a given enzyme in the different sections of the alimentary canal. The activity of carbohydrases is higher in the herbivorous fish Labeo, than in the carnivorous fish Wallago, and the omnivorous fish Clarias. As for protease, maximum activity is found in Wallago. The difference is not so well marked for the activity of lipase. There is a correlation between the normal diet of the fishes and the relative activity of the digestive enzymes.
Staphylococcal alpha-toxin of mol.wt. 39,000 was degraded at an alkaline pH by staphylococcal extracellular proteases resulting in the formation of three relatively stable intermediates with mol.wt. 27,500, 23,500 and 12,000. The intermediate with mol.wt. 27,500 which existed in two charged forms, was isolated by column chromatography and found to be non-haemolytic. Furthermore, it could be obtained by proteolysis of alpha-toxin (mol.wt. 39,000) with chymotrypsin in low concentrations. This intermediate was further degraded by trypsin to the protein with mol.wt. 23,500 and 12,000.
Individual young adult F1 hybrid mice were irradiated with 500 R and 24 hr later injected with 5 X 10(7) spleen cells obtained from a sex-matched parental-strain donor. The injected animals were then followed for a period of 3 months and loss of body weight, mortality rate, and other signs of fatal graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) were recorded. The donor-recipient strain combinations were selected in such a way as to provide genetic differences in the entire H-2 complex, the K or D regions alone, the K or the D end, and the central (I) regions alone. The data obtained on only few combinations indicate that strong GVHD (100% mortality rate within the first month after the injection) occurs only in those donor-recipient combinations which differ in the entire H-2 complex or in the K end (K + I regions). Much weaker GVHD (mortality rate of only 50% or less and death of individual mice spread over the entire observation period) is observed when the donor and the host differ in either the K, I, or D region alone. The degree of GVHD induced by three regions, when taken singularly, is about the same. Surprisingly, the K-region GVHD was somewhat stronger in combinations of mutant strains in comparison with recombinant-strain combinations.
A protease from Tetrahymena pyriformis inactivated eight of nine commercially available enzymes tested, including lactate deyhdrogenase, isocitrate dehydrogenase (TPN-specific), glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase, D-amino acid oxidase, fumarase, pyruvate kinase, hexokinase, and citrate synthase. Urate oxidase was not inactivated. Inactivation occurred at neutral pH, was prevented by inhibitors of the protease, and followed first order kinetics. In those cases tested, inactivation was enhanced by mercaptoethanol. Most of the enzyme-inactivating activity was due to a protease of molecular weight 25,000 that eluted from DEAE-Sephadex at 0.3 M KCl. A second protease of this molecular weight, which was not retained by the gel, inactivated only isocitrate dehydrogenase and D-amino acid oxidase. These two proteases could also be distinguished by temperature and inhibitor sensitivity. Two other protease peaks obtained by DEAE-Sephadex chromatography had little or no no enzyme inactivating activity, while another attacked only D-amino acid oxidase. At least six of the enzymes could be protected from proteolytic inactivation by various ligands. Isocitrates dehydrogenase was protected by isocitrate, TPN, or TPNH, glucose-6-dehydrogenase by glucose-6-P or TPN, pyruvate kinase by phosphoenolypyruvate or ADP, hexokinase by glucose, and fumarase by a mixture of fumarate and malate. Lactate dehdrogenase was not protected by either of its substrates of coenzymes. Citrate synthase was probably protected by oxalacetate. Our data suggest that the protease or proteases discussed here may participate in the inactivation or degradation of a least some enzymes in Tetrahymena. Since the inactivation occurs at neutral pH, this process could be regulated by variations in the cellular levels of substrates, coenzymes, or allosteric regulators resulting form changes in growth conditions or growth state. Such a mechanism would permit the selective retention of enzymes of metabolically active pathways.
The activator of cereboroside-sulphatase (cerebroside-3-sulphate-3-sulphohydrolase, EC 3.1.6.8) is necessary for the enzymic hydrolysis of sulphatides (cerebroside sulphates) at ionic concentrations in the physiological range. The pH optimum of the reaction is 4.5--4.8. Under similar incubation conditions, a complex is formed between activator and sulphatides which is partially inhibited, due to competitive binding in the presence of cerebrosides of phosphatidylserine. Inhibition depends upon the concentration of the lipids and is of the same order of magnitude as the inhibition (by these lipids) of enzymic sulphatide hydrolysis in the presence of activator. Complex formation between activator and sulphatides is reversible since the complex dissociates partially when certain concentrations of phosphatidylserine are added. Moreover, the rate of sulphatide hydrolysis increases with the concentration of the activator.sulphatide complex in the reaction mixture. This indicates that the activator.sulphatide complex is the substrate for the enzyme and a model for this activation is presented.
We report epidemiologic, clinical, laboratory, and biopsy findings in 14 cases of nephropathia epidemica. The patients were between 19 and 49 years of age. The onset of the disease was characterized by high fever, nausea, headache, backache, abdominal pain, proteinuria, oliguria, hematuria, and uremia. The symptoms subsided rapidly during the polyuria phase, which followed the oliguria stage. Because of renal failure, hemodialysis was required in eight cases. Edema of eyelids, conjunctival injection and hemorrhages, transitory myopia, and acute glaucoma were the most common eye abnormalities. Renal biopsy specimens showed glomerular changes, with mild swelling of the epithelial cells of Bowman's capsule, thickening of the basement membrane of glomerular capillaries, glomerular adhesions, inflammatory cell infiltration, leukocytoclasis and hemorrhages in the interstitium, and eosinophilic hyaline degeneration and vacuolization of the epithelial cells of the proximal tubuli.
In an attempt to elucidate the etiology of acute gastric bleeding and/or erosion and chronic peptic ulcer, a measurement of gastric juice and mucosal pepsin was carried out in surgically-treated patients. Patients with massive gastric mucosal bleeding in the fundic gland area showed high levels of fundic mucosal pepsin without acid-pepsin appearance in the gastric contents. In these patients, a significantly high value of the peptic activity ratio of gastric mucosa to gastric juice (MJPR, 36.4 +/- 6.7) was observed. It can be suggested that transient blockage of pepsin output from peptic cells with occur in the course of the acute mucosal bleeding, while acid-peptic digestion could be carried out within the fundic gland mucosa. On the other hand, a close correlation between relatively high acid-and-pepsin concentration of the gastric contents and a low level of MJPR (5.6 +/- 1.2) was observed in patients with chronic gastric ulcer. Patients who had a gastric ulcer within the pyloric gland mucosa had a highest acid-peptic activity among three groups with ulcers in fundic gland area, border zone and pyloric gland area. There is a rule that acid-peptic activity becomes low when the site of gastric ulcer moves from pylorus to fundus. A marked increase in acid-and-pepsin secretion into the gastric cavity was observed in patients suffering from chronic duodenal ulcer showing the lowest level of MJPR (3.40 +/- 0.50).
1. The structures of three hitherto unidentified metabolites of bromazepam in the rat were elucidated using u.v., mass, n.m.r. and i.r. spectrometry. 2. All three metabolites contained a methylthio or corresponding oxidized group at the C-6' position of the pyridyl moiety. 3. Quantitative analysis of the metabolites determined after administration of [14C]bromazepam to rat revealed that the three metabolites together comprised about 6% of the total radioactivity excreted in the 24-h urine, or about 1% of the dose.
The initial-velocity kinetics of hog kidney gamma-glutamyltransferase were studied. Glutamate gamma-(4-nitroanilide) and its 3-carboxy derivative, glutamate gamma-(3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide), served as gamma-glutamyl donors, and glycylglycine as an acceptor. Reaction products were identified by paper chromatography and amino acid analysis. Inhibited Ping Pong mechanisms and a comprehensive initial- velocity expression were developed which account for the observed simultaneous gamma-glutamyl transfer and autotransfer, competitive inhibition by glycylglycine, and non-competitive inhibition by the carboxy donor. The validity of the proposed Ping Pong mechanisms are supported by enzyme-velocity data obtained with constant ratios of acceptor to donor concentrations. Kinetic constants were determined by a non-linear regression analysis. With glutamate gamma-(4-nitroanilide) as the donor, Michaelis constants for the donor, acceptor and donor-acting-as-acceptor are 1.87, 24.9, and 2.08 mM respectively. With glutamate gamma-(3-carboxy-4-nitroanilide) as the donor, these Michaelis constants are 1.63, 16.6, and 12.3 mM. Glyclyglycine competitive inhibition constants with the parent donor and its carboxy derivative are 275 and 205 mM respectively; the non-competitive inhibition constant of the carboxy donor is 34 mM.
Operating parameters are described for the qualitative and quantitative analysis of an isoniazid-pyridoxine hydrochloride mixture by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Each compound was chromatographed on an octadecyl column, using absolute methanol-water (60:40) (pH 2.5) containing 0.01 M dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate. The flow rate was 2.0 ml/min (2500 psig), and the peaks were detected at 293 nm. The analysis was accomplished using ion-pair formation for effecting chromatographic separation. The time required for separation of the drug mixture is approximately 12 min with an accuracy of 1.17-0.30%.
Optimal conditions have been determined for the coupling of rat liver phenylalanine hydroxylase (PheH) to  activated CH-Sepharose-4B. When 12 mg of ligand was reacted with 100 mg of matrix, 20% of the initial enzyme activity was covalently bound along with 55% of the protein. The coupled enzyme showed greater thermal stability from 50 degrees to 60 degrees after heating for 15 min, a lower optimum pH, 5.8, slightly less inhibition by Ag+, Cu+2, and Hg+2, and greater resistance to hydrolysis by alpha-chymotrypsin and protease. The uncoupled enzyme, however, exhibited greater storage stability than the covalently linked enzyme at 25 degrees after 24 hrs and at 0 degrees after 21 days. Alteration of the microenvironment by the introduction of sulfhydryl groups and positive and negative charged carriers during coupling of the enzyme either had no effect or markedly reduced hydroxylase activity.
When very find measurements are recorded for the purpose of establishing distortion values, from the standpoint of accuracy, specific procedures must be developed. In the procedural system defined here, a potential major source of error is indicated and the means of overcoming this error established. From the standpoint of modern electronic technology, the use of an analogue-to-digital interface with a digital computer is considered extremely advantageous and allows the utilization of technical help to carry out the preliminary measurements. Under these circumstances, major error sources, such as reader error and calculation error, are eliminated. Further, multiple readings on each point can be made without significant sacrifice of time. This latter statement can help define the reading accuracy on each point and allows an immediate further set of readings on any point that has a large variation in the initially established set of readings. The applicability of this approach to any system in which an accurate set of readings is required to define distortion or some other parameter is limited only by the imagination of the investigator. Measuring points can be established at any desired location, and the number required is a function of the mathematical analysis being attempted. The use of a digital computer to compute the final values allows an immediate remeasurement of the initial values if necessary, since the computer response time is of the order of seconds for the calculations carried out. This is very important if changes in the experimental setup are likely to occur with time. In general, a computerized scheme such as is proposed here allows the investigator to concentrate on the experiment rather than the calculation of results. Also, the use of technical help to carry out delicate measuring procedures can allow the investigator more time to analyze the final results.
1. The central depressant effects of bromvaletone, carbromal and six non-bromo analogues were compared in mice. 2. The chloro analogues of bromvaletone and carbromal were slightly less potent as central depressant agents than the bromo compounds. 3. The chloro analogue of bromvaletone had the greatest margin between central depressant and lethal doses. 4. Lipophilicity (octanol-water partition coefficient) did not provide a unifying relationship for potency within this group of eight acylureas. However, within each of the two subsets of compounds, a linear relationship was found between relative potency and lipophilicity.
The oxidation-reduction potential of chloroperoxidase, an enzyme which catalyzes peroxidative chlorination, bromination, and iodination reactions, has been investigated. In addition to catalyzing biological halogenation reactions, chloroperoxidase is unusual in that the carbon monoxide complex of ferrous chloroperoxidase shows the typical long wavelength Soret absorption associated with P-450 hemoproteins. The pH dependence of the chloroperoxidase oxidation-reduction potential shows a discontinuity around pH 4.7. Similarly, measurements of the affinity of ferrous chloroperoxidase for carbon monoxide monitored both by spectroscopic and potentiometric titration exhibit a discontinuity in the pH 4.7 region. Oxidation-reduction potential measurements on chloroperoxidase in a CO atmosphere also show a discontinuous pH profile. These results suggest that ferrous chloroperoxidase undergoes reversible modification at low pH and that these changes are reflected in the oxidation-reduction potential. The oxidation-reduction potential of chloroperoxidase at pH 6.9 is - 140 mV, close to that measured for cytochrome P-450cam in the presence of substrate. The oxidation-reduction potential of chloroperoxidase at pH 2.7, the pH optimum for enzymatic chlorination, is +150 mV. The oxidation-reduction potentials of the halide complexes of chloroperoxidase (chloride, bromide, and iodide) are essentially identical with the potential measurements on the native enzyme. These observations suggest that, although halide anions bind to the enzyme, they probably do not bind as an axial ligand to the heme ferric iron.
According to recommended international standards edible fungi are blanched before salting and freezing. A study was conducted on the solution losses of Lactarius rufus due to blanching. Weight losses, changes of dry matter, raw fat, total nitrogen, amino nitrogen and ash contents as well as the pH value were determined when various methods of blanching were used. 3 min blanching at 95-100 degrees C was able to inactivate catalase and peroxydase while 6 min blanching was needed for inactivating polyphenoloxydase totally. After blanching there were 1/10 - 1/100 of spores left. During the 3 min blanching in water five times the quantity of mushrooms the losses of dry matter were about 10%; when doubling the quantity of blanching water the losses increased to 2-3 fold. The doubling of blanching time had no significant influence on the losses. The soluble dry matter content of blanched mushrooms was less than 50% of that of the fresh. Total nitrogen of fresh mushrooms was equal to that of the blanched but the amino nitrogen decreased to one tenth by blanching. The mineral element content of blanched mushrooms was about the half of that of the fresh. Blanching caused a slight decrease in the pH value. The necessity of the blanching of all edible fungi before freezing was discussed.
Orofacial or tardive dyskinesias are involuntary repetitive movements of the mouth and face. In most cases, they occur in older psychotic patients who are in institutions and in whom long-term treatment with antipsychotic drugs of the phenothiazine and butyrophenone groups is being carried out. These dyskinesias are frequent in occurrence and characteristically are irreversible. Several biochemical mechanisms have been proposed as causes, including hypersensitivity or partially deneverated brain dopamine receptors and low affinity of the offending drugs for brain muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Clinical therapy has been attempted primarily with drugs that antagonize dopamine receptors or deplete brain dopamine. The benefits of drug treatment have been variable and lack of consistent improvement has been discouraging. Early recognition of dyskinesia should be attempted, and the dose reduced or the drug omitted at the first sign.
Entamoeba histolytica homogenates are capable of hydrolyzing a range of inorganic and organic pyrophosphates. Two separate activities are present: an inorganic pyrophosphatase hydrolyzing inorganic pyrophosphate and linear tripolyphosphate, and a nucleoside diphosphatase hydrolyzing thiamine pyrophosphate and nucleoside diphosphates (ADP, GDP and UDP). The inorganic pyrophosphatase has an acid pH optimum, a relatively high KM (congurent to 1 micrometer) and is markedly heat stable and lacks a metal requirement. The nucleoside diphosphatase also has an acid pH optimum but displays a much higher affinity for substrate (KM congurent to 50 micrometer), is unstable to heating and is activated by Ca ions. Both pyrophosphatases distinct from the acid phosphatase activity which is also present. All three hydrolases are sedimentable and latent suggesting their association with membrane bounded organelles. No soluble inorganic pyrophosphatase activity could be demonstrated.
The effect of indomethacin as an antagonist to prostaglandin was evaluated on a series of 16 women during spontaneous labour in the ninth month of pregnancy. The evaluation of the effect of indomethacin on the progression of labour was determined by the deviation from the normal curve of Friedman. In 8 cases there was complete cessation of labour from 3 to 192 hours and in 8 additional cases there was protraction of the active phase from 3 to 17 hours. In 2 cases there was no effect. Seven births terminated spontaneously and in 9 cases it was necessary to administer pitocin intravenously to strengthen or renew contractions in order to terminate the pregnancy. There is no correlation between the obstetric state (the degree of cervical dilation, or effacement or rupture of membranes) at the time of indomethacin administration and the uterine response, or the speed of return to the normal curve of Friedman. The effect of indomethacin, as an antagonist to prostaglandin, at the time of labour was studied.
1. Hepatic lipogenesis in vivo and the activities of enzymes associated with fatty acid synthesis in the liver were studied in rats fed for 21 days on liquid diets containing ethanol. 2. The ethanol-fed rats developed a moderate hepatic triacylglycerol accumulation during this period. When carbohydrate was replaced by ethanol in the diet, the rate of fatty acid synthesis was slower in the ethanol-fed rats on low-, medium- and high-fat diets than in the appropriate controls. However, when the fat/carbohydrate ratio was kept the same in the ethanol-fed and control rats, ethanol had no influence on the rate of fatty acid synthesis. 3. Glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity was lower in the ethanol-fed group. ;Malic' enzyme activity did not change during the ethanol treatment when the fat/carbohydrate ratio was kept unchanged. 4. The ATP citrate lyase activity was lower in the ethanol-fed rats on all diets, whereas acetyl-CoA synthetase activity was independent of the composition of the control diet, but was lower in the ethanol-fed rats, in which the concentration of the active form of pyruvate dehydrogenase was also lower. 5. It is concluded that hepatic fatty acid synthesis does not play any major role in ethanol-induced triacylglycerol accumulation. Careful design of the diets is necessary to reveal the specific effects of ethanol on the enzymes associated with lipogenesis.
Folic acid is one of the 'younger' vitamins, yet it has attracted intensive study in the thirty years since the identification of pteroylglutamic acid and its polyglutamyl conjugates. The absorption and malabsorption of folates, natural, purified and synthetic, in disease has been studied more than any other vitamin and indeed folate absorption has become one clinical test of intestinal function. We know little about the release of folate from protein complexes, but we have learned, with the help of synthetic radiolabelled pteroylpolyglutamates that polyglutamyl folates are hydrolysed at or near the luminal border of the intestine and the released folate is efficiently absorbed. The rate limiting stage of folate absorption appears to be the transport of the monoglutamyl folate. In disease, and with drugs, folate malabsorption occurs primarily when monoglutamyl transport is depressed. The specific components of the folate transport system, listed in Table 4, are receiving increased attention. The mechanism of uptake is still a topic of controversy but a dual system including both a saturable and a diffusion component would explain most of the data. Reduction and methyl or formyl addition occur in the intestine but such metabolism is not obligatory for transport. The nature of folate binding within the cell and the function of specific folate binding proteins requires further study. At present we have little or no information about the mechanism of folate release from the epithelial cell to the circulation but this step also could influence the rate and specificity of overall process. The tools are now at hand to complete our understanding of the steps in folate absorption and metabolism. Such an understanding should facilitate the management of folate deficiency whenever it complicates gastrointestinal disease or drug therapy.
The cold-induced release of calcium from sarcoplasmic reticulum preparations from both white and red muscles of the rabbit was studied. Part of the release was due to the increase in pH of the reaction mixture with cooling. Calcium release was greatly reduced or completely prevented by the inclusion of oxalate or inorganic orthophosphate in the medium. No release occurred in 5 mM oxalate. With phosphate, the proportion of the calcium previously taken up at 23 degrees C that was released at 0 degrees C became progressively smaller as the phosphate concentration was increased. When the pH was adjusted to be the same at 0 degrees C as at 23 degrees C there was little release from white muscle preparations in 10 mM phosphate and no release when the phosphate concentration was 20 mM or more. With red muscle preparations calcium was released at higher phosphate concentrations, 8% of the amount previously taken up still being released at 50 mM phosphate and a smaller amount at 100 mM phosphate. The effects of oxalate and phosphate can be explained in terms of the reduction in free calcium concentration inside the vesicles by calcium precipitants, and a difference in the temperature coefficients of calcium inflow and outflow.
The protein adsorptive properties of monosodium urate monohydrate (MSU), silica (Si), and calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals were studied by qualitative and quantitative techniques. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) was adsorbed preferentially by MSU crystals from normal human serum and demonstrated high-affinity binding isotherms when compared with several isolated proteins in solution. The physical characteristics of this reaction suggest principally an ionic mechanism, since adsorption was enhanced by decreasing pH or ionic strength. Weaker physical forces also were suggested by studies showing enhanced adsorption at lower temperatures. The following order of affinity for Si or MSU crystals was found when equal concentrations of proteins were compared: Cohn fraction II greater than lysozyme greater than beta lactoglobulin greater than bovine serum albumin greater than ovalbumin. IgG adsorption to the crystals studied may explain certain features of their biological activity. It is suggested that this phenomenon blocks the membranolytic properties of crystals and stimulates their phagocytosis through interaction with Fc receptors on the surface of the phagocytic cells.
The viscosity behaviour of alkaline solutions of mixtures from different wheat glutens with casein in dependence on the concentration of the whole protein, wheat protein, sodium hydroxide, sodium chloride and on the temperature, time and the effect of treatment of wet wheat gluten with sodium chloride or sodium hydroxide on the properties of the spun wheat protein/casein fibers are described. Based on this model experiments the rheological behaviour of alkaline solutions of wheat protein/casein (I:2) and proceed from the parameters of the spinning process the properties of the corresponding spun fibers are represented.
This work supports the idea that PDEA is bound and stored in brain particulate fraction. The release of PDEA into cytosol where the activator-sensitive PDE is located, is the first event in the process of the regulation of cAMP metabolism and inactivation. PDEA is released by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of the activator-binding sites. This process is Ca2+ independent and does not occur in the presence of cGMP and cGMP-dependent phosphorylation. The free, soluble PDEA activates the high Km PDE in the presence of micromolar concentrations of Ca2+. This protein decreases severalfold the Km for cAMP of the high Km activator-sensitive PDE. PDEA regulates cAMP metabolism when the concentration of cAMP is elevated by a transsynaptic activation of adenylate cyclase. The rate of synthesis and the release of PDEA might be a part of the process of receptor sub- and supersensitivity, which has been reported during denervation or as a result of chronic treatment with drugs.
Hypothermic effects of d-Amphetamine, chlorpromazine, a variety of other phenothiazines, ET495 and haloperidol in rats at 4 degrees C were measured separately and in combination. All the drugs produced some hypothermia. Among the phenothiazines, degree of hypothermia induced was found to be correlated with relative effectiveness of the drug as an antipsychotic agent. Hypothermic effects of each of the phenothiazines in combination with d-Amphetadrugs as an antipsychotic agent. Hypothermic effects of each of the phenothiazines in combination with d-Amphetamine was greater than for either drug alone. Hypothermic effects of the combination CPZ with Amphetamine was potentiated by haloperidol but blocked by ET495. The evidence supports a model of neuronal feedback loops either within the central DA mesolimbic pathway or between the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal DA systems. The establishment of interdependency between antipsychotic and hypothermic effects of phenothiazines offers promise not only to a greater understanding of the mechanisms underlying these effects, but the possibility of an objective test for screening new materials for antipsychotic effectiveness.
1. Chloroplasts have been preilluminated by a sequence of n short saturating flashes immediately before alkalinization to pH 9.3, and brought back 2 min later to pH 7.8. The assay of Photosystem II activity through dichlorophenolindophenol photoreduction, oxygen evolution, fluorescence induction, shows that part of the centers is inactivated and that this part depends on the number of preilluminating flashes (maximum inhibition after one flash) in a way which suggests identification of state S2 as the target for alkaline inactivation. 2. As shown by Reimer and Trebst ((1975) Biochem. Physiol. Pflanz. 168, 225-232) the inactivation necessitates the presence of gramicidin, which shows that the sensitive site is on the internal side of the thylakoid membrane. 3. The electron flow through inactivated Photosystem II is restored by artificial donor addition (diphenylcarbazide or hydroxylamine); this suggests that the water-splitting enzyme itself is blocked. The inactivation is accompanied by a solubilization of bound Mn2+ and by the occurence of EPR Signal II "fast". 4. Glutaraldehyde fixation before the treatment does not prevent the inactivation which thus does not seem to involve a protein structural change.
First, lymphocyte transplantation into total body-irradiated rats is discussed. The effect on spleen colony formation caused by the transplantation of untreated lymphocytes, as well as of lymphocytes previously incubated with PHA, or with PHA plus L-asparaginase, or with lymphokines, was studied. Then the effect of the urinary colony-stimulating factor in vitro, and the in vitro feeder-layer activity of leucocytes on colony formation of human and mice bone marrow cells in haematological diseases is dealth with. The injection of rat lymphocytes previously incubated for 24 hours with PHA resulted in a higher number and a larger size of colonies in the spleen of the recipient rats. Lymphocytes preincubated with lymphokines gave rise to the formation of spleen colonies which were larger than those developing after the injection of untreated lymphocytes. When the lymphocytes were previously incubated with PHA plus L-asparaginase, PHA failed to stimulate colony formation in the spleen. The phenomenon is explained by assuming that PHA, as an aspecific stimulator of cell division, initiated the division of CFUs, thus the CFUs content of the preincubated samples increased, resulting in an increase in the number of colonies formed after the transplantation of lymphocytes pretreated with PHA. Another possible explanation is that CFUs division, or their spleen take is enhanced by the immunocompetent lymphocytes activated by PHA, either directly or via soluble mediators produced or released by immunocompetent lymphocytes such as lymphokines. The study of colony-forming cells and colony-stimulating activity in primary myelofibrosis (PM) showed an increase in the number of circulating CFUc in this condition, and an abnormal density of these cells reaching a peak below 1.062. The lowering of CSA in the first two peripheral blood gradient fractions agrees with the observation in the same fractions of a high percentage of CFUc at the expense of the CSC population. Thus, double cell population seems to exist in PM. One is greatly abnormal with a low specific density and high plating efficiency, whereas the other population is almost normal, showing a higher specific density and a lower plating efficiency.
From samples of earth taken in different parts of the world bacteria were isolated which grow on pyrazone as the only source of carbon. When these bacteria are grown in a pyrazone mineral salt medium, four compounds are excreted into the medium. The structures of these compounds furnish information on the catabolic route of pyrazone. Since the suggested scheme of breakdown was incomplete, enzymatic tests were carried out to clarify the matter. It was possible to carry out the first steps of breakdown also in the cell-free extract of the pyrazone-degrading bacteria. For the second step of pyrazone breakdown, 2 different enzymes of the same catalytic activity were identified. For the oxidative cleavage of the pyrocatechole derivative 2 different enzymes were found: an ortho- and a meta-clearing enzyme. The 2-hydroxy muconic acid decarboxylase was identified as a further enzyme. The importance of this enzyme is discussed in connection with the further breakdown.
By means of selective solubilization methods and slab gel electrophoresis, reproducible patterns of 19, 37, and 56 protein bands were found to be associated with nuclear, "flagellar," and total human spermatozoa, respectively. Forty protein bands were found between the molecular weight of 12,400 to 160,000 daltons. Twelve bands were associated with values lower than 12,400 daltons. The nuclear major bands were located in a low molecular weight zone, while "flagellar" ones were located in a high molecular weight zone. None of these bands represents degradation products since a) in the solubilized samples neither acrosin, chymotrypsin, nor trypsin activities were present, b) in the presence of two protease inhibitors the same electrophoretic patterns were observed, and c) labelled globins added during sample manipulation were quantitatively recovered without degradation.
The cardiovascular effects of halothane-nitrous oxide anesthesia, and beta-receptor blockade with either propranolol or practolol, were studied in 15 dogs in which severe myocardial infarction had been induced ten days earlier. The hemodynamic responses to blood loss amounting to 25 per cent of estimated blood volume, and its subsequent replacement, were studied before and after induction of beta-receptor blockade. In terms of cardiac output and aortic blood flow acceleration, cardiac performance in the absence of beta-blockade was markedly impaired during steady-state anesthesia, compared with corresponding values in normal dogs. Practolol (2.0 mg/kg) administered during anesthesia induced no significant circulatory change other than a 14 per cent decrease in heart rate and a 25 per cent increase in strode volum. Propranolol (0.3 mg/kg) caused a comparable reduction of heart rate, but significantly reduced cardiac output (-27 per cent), aortic blood flow acceleration (-26 per cent), and peak LV power (-19 per cent), and increased systemic vascular resistance (+49 per cent). The two drugs caused comparable shifts of the isoproterenol dose-response curve during anesthesia. Graduated blood loss during anesthesia, to a total of 25 per cent of blood volume, caused consistent circulatory changes (decreased mean arterial pressure cardiac output, peak LV power, LV minute work) that were essentially similar before and after beta-receptor blockade with either propranolol or practolol. The positive inotropic effect of calcium gluconate during halothane anesthesia was significantly reduced following either propranolol or practolol, but the hemodynamic responses to changes of systemic vascular resistance induced with acetylcholine or phenylephrine were not modified by beta-receptor blockade.
Seventy-two private practice patients with moderate or severe anxiety-depressive neurosis received mean daily oral doses of 23.8 mg bromazepam, 94 mg amitriptyline, or 4.6 capsules of placebo in a double-blind four-week study. The patient's condition was assessed initially and  at weekly intervals by using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and the Hamilton Psychiatric Rating Scale for Depression. From the first through the fourth week evaluations, a larger proportion of patients improved on bromazepam than on amitriptyline. Bromazepam was also superior to amitriptyline and placebo in the degree of improvement made Statistical significance (p less than 0.05) of the changes noted after one week was even greater after four weeks, particularly in BPRS items of somatic concern, depressive mood, anxiety and tension and in nearly all representative psychic and somatic symptoms on the depression scale, confirmed by global evaluation. Compared to bromazepam patients, amitriptyline patients had significantly severer adverse reactions which were the major cause of the group's higher dropout rate (66% vs 33%). The prompt clinical response to bromazepam contributed to its superior safety and patient progress in that it was possible to carefully titrate dosage and thus help to control adverse reactions and allow patients to maintain alertness and productivity under therapy.
The immune status of 35 patients with renal failure was studied shortly after they had commenced treatment by chronic haemodialysis to see if a group with poor immunological responses could be identified. Of 27 patients who were unimmunised to start with, only two developed lymphocytoxic antibodies after a year of treatment. The routine immunological tests that were carried out on these patients failed to predict which of them would develop antibodies, and the values that were obtained for the group of cytotoxic negative patients were no different from those obtained for the two patients who became immunised and six others who had previously rejected a kidney transplant. By using a new test that measured cellular immunity to rat antigens, eight patients could be identified as "poor responders." These individuals had in addition failed to develop cytotoxic antibodies during dialysis, had serum IgG levels that were significantly lower than normal, and were uniformly unresponsive to purified protein derivative. This group of patients might be a favoruable one to transplant.
1 Aerosol administration of ascaris antigen to the airways of ascaris-hypersensitive dogs provoked increases in pulmonary resistance (Rp) and decreases in dynamic lung compliance (Cdyn). These changes in pulmonary mechanics were not inhibited by the histamine H1-receptor antagonists, diphenhydramine or mepyramine. 2 Increases in Rp and decreases in Cdyn induced by a histamine aerosol were markedly or totally inhibited by comparable doses of these H1-antihistamines. 3 Doses of antigen which produced pathophysiological pulmonary responses failed to produce a detectable histamine release from the cardiopulmonary system in vivo. Aerosol antigen provocation, equivalent to 5 to 9 times greater than that which produced substantial pathophysiological pulmonary responses, did cause histamine release in vivo. 4 The canine cardiopulmonary system showed only a modest ability to remove and/or degrade circulating histamine. 5 It is concluded that histamine may not play a major role in mediating the acute antigen-induced bronchoconstriction in the ascaris-hypersensitive dog.
Psychotropic drugs such as the phenothiazine neuroleptics and tricyclic antidepressants are known to cause electrocardiographic abnormalities as well as a central anticholinergic syndrome. Physostigmine is known to reverse the central muscarinic anticholinergic manifestations by inhibition of the enzyme cholinesterase. An unusual case of trifluoperazine overdose, in which the patient presented with cardiac arrhythmias and a central anticholinergic syndrome, is presented. Treatment with physostigmine reversed the central anticholinergic syndrome as well as the electrocardiographic abnormalities. Effects of phenothiazines on altering cardiac status are also discussed.
The maternal effect was shown to influence the degree of allogenic inhibition of stem hemopoietic cells of the embryonic liver and adult bone marrow in CBA and C57Bl/6 mice. The display of allogenic inhibition of stem cells of the embryonic liver and adult bone marrow proved to be similar in C57Bl/6 mice and dissimilar in CBA.
The effects of adenosine diphosphate and triphosphate on the periodic  acid oxidation of the phenothiazine tranquilizing drugs were studied. The principal effect was a marked reduction in the rate of formation and decay of the drug free radical. The oxidation rates of the nucleotide free drugs seemed to be most strongly influenced by the inductive effects of substituents at the 2-position of the phenothiazine nucleus. However, the oxidation rates of the drugs in the presence of nucleotide were most strongly influenced by the substituents at the 10-position. Variations of the structure of substituents at the 10-position have only a modest effect on the electronic state of the phenothiazine nucleus. Therefore, the marked effect of structural variation in the 10-substituents in the presence of nucleotide on the periodate oxidation rate most likely is an expression of steric effects related to an interaction between drug and nucleotide.
It has been shown with electron microscope that the form of the tropocollagen macro-molecule in solution is determined by hydrogen ions concentration. It is proposed that in native collagen fibrils the tropocollagen macromolecules have an unknown before form of rods with the thickened central part. Their length is about 1000 A. The known extended form of the tropocollagen macromolecule (the rod of 2800 A length) is probably transformed to the described form by the folding of the macromolecule. The origin of cross striation of the collagen fibril is discussed.
The mechanism by which arginine decarboxylase dissociates from a decamer to a dimer has been examined by allowing a sulfhydryl group, available in the dimer but not the decamer, to react with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). Initial rates of dissociation were obtained by following the resulting increase in absorbance at 412 nm in a stopped-flow spectrophotometer. The rate of dissociation increases linearly with the protein concentration and reaches a maximum as a function of the concentrations of 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid), Na+, and 1/[H+]. Experiments in which the rate of dissociation was measured while one reagent was varied at fixed levels of a second indicate that dissociation requires three events: binding of one Na+ ion, dissociation of one proton, and the irreversible dissociation of subunits, in that order. The results also show that the decamer dissociates in stages rather than all at once. The activation energy for the overall process is 16 kcal/mol.
1. An oral dose the neuroleptic agent 1-(4'-fluorophenyl)-4-(cyclohexyl-1'-(14C)piperazinyl-4'-carboxylate)butan-1-one was mainly eliminated in the urine within 12 h by rats and man. During 5 days, 63-6% and 83-3% was eliminated in the urine of rats and man respectively. 2. Plasma concentrations in man related a maximum during 30 min to 1 h, representing 1-43 microgram equiv./ml. The proportion of unchanged drug in plasma decreased from 48% at 15 min to less than 10% after 1 h. 3. Seven major radioactive components were detected in the chloroform extract of basified rat urine and five major components in similar extracts of human urine. The major rat metabolites were isolated and identified by mass spectrometry as components resulting from mono- and dihydroxylation in the cyclohexane ring, reduction of the keto group to a secondary alcohol and hydrolysis and decarboxylation of the cyclohexylcarbamoyl group. The major metabolite in the rat urine extract was the dihydroxylated secondary alcohol derivative while the major human metabolite was the monohydroxylated secondary alcohol derivative. The metabolites were also partly eliminated as conjugates.
In a 25-year old woman with ulcerative colitis a lupus erythematosus syndrome occurred during treatment with salazosulfapyridine. The connection with medication was ascertained by reexposition. Some of the systemic complications of ulcerative colitis may possibly be due to the salazosulfapyridine medication.
In dogs with gastric fistulas, intragastric pressure was measured with a flaccid ballon containing 500 ml of water. Graded doses of dopamine caused graded decreases in intragastric pressure. The effect was blocked by pimozide or by metoclopramide but was not significantly affected by phenoxybenzamine, propranolol, guanethidine, or FLA-63 (a beta-hydroxylase inhibitor). Pretreatment with metoclopramide or with pimozide shifted the volume-pressure diagram of the stomach to the left; that is, at any given volume the pressure was greater after than before these drugs. In dogs with vagally innervated gastric pouches and gastric fistulas, feeding for 1 min (while allowing the food to leave the stomach through the gastric fistula) caused a prompt decrease in pressure in the pouch that lasted for about 5 min. Pretreatment with metoclopramide decreased the magnitude and duration of this receptive relaxation. It is concluded that these findings are consistent with (but do not establish) the hypothesis that dopamine is the neurotransmitter for receptive relaxation of the stomach, because dopamine mimics receptive relaxation, and dopamine antagonists partially block reflexly induced receptive relaxation.
The actions of 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium were studied on the chick biventer cervicis muscle preparation. All three compounds produced a greater augmentation of indirectly elicited twitches than of directly elicited twitches. The compounds did not restore transmission in OmMCa2+ solutions but rather produced contractures that were inhibited by acetylcholine receptor antagonists. The compounds restored twitch height in one-tenth normal Ca2+ solutions and induced spontaneous muscle twitching. The compounds reversed dantrolene-induced block of directly elicited twitches. Interactions between tetraethylammonium and 3,4-diaminopyridine were also studied. In indirectly stimulated preparations, the combined effects of the two compounds were more than additive at one concentration level only. In directly stimulated preparations, the effects of 3,4-diaminopyridine were greatly enhanced by tetraethylammonium pretreatment. 3,4-Diaminopyridine pretreatment produced less synergism than tetraethylammonium pretreatment. It is concluded that the actions of the aminopyridines and tetraethylammonium on transmitter release and muscle contractility are essentially similar. These actions are postulated to arise from an inhibitory action on potassium conductance and on an ability to release calcium from nerve and muscle membranes. On the basis of the interaction studies, it is suggested that the compounds possess different binding capacities for two different sites on the potassium conducting channel.
The short- and long-term effects of neuroleptic drugs differ both clinically and biochemically. Short-term treatment with such a drug causes a kinetic activation of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase. Long-term treatment causes a prompt activation of the enzyme which is followed by a delayed, compensatory deactivation below control levels. Tolerance also develops to the stimulating effect of haloperidol on striatal dopamine turnover.
Two proteolytic enzymes, protease A and protease B, were isolated in homogeneous state from the cultural broth of the thermophilic actinomycete Micromonospora vulgaris 42. Their physicochemical properties were studied, i.e., molecular weight (50 000 for protease A and 30 000 for protease B), amino acid composition, N-terminal amino acids (phenylalanine for protease A and alanine for protease B). The specificity of the action of these enzymes was assayed by splitting the B chain of oxidized insulin. Both enzymes are neutral proteases of the thermolysine type.
Twenty-five patients, 16 men and 9 women, 5-59 years of age with the Marfan syndrome and cardiac complications were started on propranolol over a 6-year period. Propranolol was used as a beta-adrenergic blocking agent to reduce myocardial contractility in an attempt thereby to stay the progression of aortic dilatation and to prevent acute dissection of the aorta. The indications for prophylactic treatment were aortic dilatation, with aortic regurgitation in most cases. It was intended to keep the pulse rate below 70 at all times or below 60 at rest. Propranolol given in daily doses of 120-160 mg caused no side effects. The mean observation time for propranolol treatment in the 25 patients was 3.0 +/- 1.8 years ranging from 1-7 years. In spite of treatment, 5 patients (1 female and 4 males) experienced acute aortic dissection of rupture with fatal outcome. This occurred in 2 patients with the asthenic type, in 2 patients with the nonasthenic type, and in 1 patient with the marfanoid hypermobility syndrome. Serial echocardiograms showed that other patients on propranolol developed increasing dilatation of the aortic root. These observations indicate that propranolol does not necessarily protect against aortic dissection nor stop the progression of the aortic dilatation when cystic medial necrosis of the aorta is already present.
Fluorescent amines, 9-aminoacridine, acridine orange and quinacrine, were used as probes for a pH gradient (deltapH) across gastric microsomal vesicles. Analysis of probe uptake data indicates that 9-aminoacridine distributes across the membrane as a weak base in accordance with the deltapH. On the other hand, acridine orange and quinacrine show characteristics of binding to membrane sites in addition to the accumulation in response to deltapH. A discussion of the advantages and limitations of the probes is presented. Application of these probes to pig gastric microsomal vesicles indicates that that K+-stimulated ATPase is responsible for the transport of H+ into the vesicles and thus develops a deltapH across the membrane. The deltapH generated by the K+-ATPase has a definite requirement for internal K+. The proton gradient can be discharged slowly after ATP depletion or rapidly either by detergent disruption of the vesicles or by increasing their leakiness using both H+ and K+ ionophores. On the other hand, the sole use of the K+ ionophore, valinomycin, stimulates the ATP-induced formation of deltapH by increasing the availability of K+ to internal sites. This stimulation by valinomycin requires the presence of permeable anions like Cl-. Analysis of the Cl- requirement indicates that in the presence of valinomycin the net effect is the accumulation of HCl inside the gastric vesicles. With an external pH of 7.0, the ATP-generated deltapH was calculated to be from 4 to 4.5 pH units. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the K+-stimulated ATPase drives a K+/H+ exchange across the gastric vesicles. Since other lines of evidence suggest that these gastric microsomes are derived from the tubulovesicular system of the oxyntic cell, the participation of the ATP-driven transport processes in gastric HCl secretion is of interest.
1 The relative efficacies of three trachea-atria selective beta-adrenoceptor agonists, fenoterol, Me 506 and Me 454, compared to isoprenaline, were determined on both trachea and atria of guinea-pigs. 2 On tracheal preparations the beta-adrenoceptor agonists were used as functional antagonists of carbachol and a comparison of the maximum shifts in the carbachol concentration-response line produced by each of the beta-adrenoceptor agonists provided a comparison of their efficacies. 3 On atrial preparations carbachol was used as a functional antagonist of the beta-adrenoceptor agonists and comparison of the maximum responses to the beta-adrenoceptor agonists in the presence of carbachol provided a comparison of their efficacies. 4 On trachea and atria the order of efficacy of the compounds was Me454 greater than Me506 greater than or equal to isoprenaline=fenoterol. 5. The results indicated that high efficacy in a non-catechol beta-adrenoceptor agonist is possible provided there is a favourable N-substituent group. 6 Since Me 454, Me 506 and fenoterol, which are trachea-atria selective, have effficacies equal to or greater than that of isoprenaline, which is non-selective, it is concluded that low efficacy in a compound is not essential for it to show trachea-atria selectivity in vitro in guinea-pigs.
We report an approach to the problem of detecting and characterising intermediates in the unfolding of ribonuclease A. Two distinct properties of the protein are compared at equilibrium within the unfolding transition zone: (1) a physical property of the protein, the absorbance of buried tyrosine residues, and (2) a functional property, the ability to bind the specific ligand, 2'-CMP. A direct comparison of these two properties is made within the pH 5.8 transition zone, and an indirect comparison is made by using the stopped-flow instrument to sample rapidly the equilibrium properties of the pH 2.0 transition. At both pH 2.0 and pH 5.8, the results indicate that there are no intermediates in folding which have the physical properties of the native enzyme but which have lost the ability to bind a specific ligand.
Mice pretreated with Trichinella spiralis extract (TsE), or infected with the parasite, rejected primary skin allografts in 18-23 days and secondary allografts in 12-16 days. Mice pretreated with saline or with bovine serum albumin (BSA) rejected the primary allografts in 12-18 days and did not accept the secondary grafts. Inoculation of increasing doses of parental spleen cells from mice pretreated with saline or with BSA in F1 hybrids produced proportionately stronger graft-versus-host reactions (GvHR) whereas increasing doses of cells from TsE pretreated mice reduced proportionately the capacity of the inoculum to induce a GvHR. Immunodepression of the parental cells was obtained with 7 and with 4, but not with 2, daily injections of TsE. The depression waned rapidly after the treatment with TsE but a significant degree still remained after 3 days. Immunodepression by TsE cannot be solely explained by antigenic competition and although our results are consistent with the induction of suppressor cells, it is probable that other mechanisms are also involved.
The influence of Mg2+ ions and temperature on the structure of the enzyme ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase was investigated using the fluorescent probe 1-anilino-8-naphthalene sulfonate (ANS). The binding of ANS to the enzyme molecule caused a significant increase of fluorescence emission which was further enhanced by the addition of Mg2+. The temperature dependence of the fluorescence emission indicated a conformational change of the enzyme between 12 and 24 degrees C. The Mg2+ and the temperature effects were additive. ANS itself did not change the conformation of the enzyme. The influence of the substrates carbon dioxide and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate, and the effect of the pH of the medium and of a sulfhydryl reducing reagent on fluorescence emission were analysed.
Ten patients, mean age 48 years, with essential hypertension of stage I and II according to the WHO classification, were studied at rest and during work before and after an average of two and 16 months of oral treatment with the beta-adrenergic blocking agent, pindolol. The pindolol treatment caused a significant decrease in the systemic systolic and diastolic blood pressure, both at rest and during work. Three mechanisms seem to be involved in the antihypertensive effect of pindolol: (1) a negative chronotropic effect on the heart, (2) a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance, and (3) an increase in venous capacitance affecting the venous return. However, the significance of these mechanisms seems to differ when the situations after two months of treatment are compared with those after 16 months of treatment. In the beginning, a decrease in cardiac output seems to be the main cause of the lowering of the blood pressure; later, a decrease in systemic vascular resistance might be of greater importance.
The purpose of the present work was to study the factors influencing calcium incorporation into a microsomal fraction prepared from the longitudinal smooth muscle of the guinea-pig ileum. Calcium incorporation required the presence of both ATP and Mg2+ and was unaffected by azide. It was enhanced by oxalate; this effect was pH dependent and it was maximal at pH 6.6. The relation between calcium uptake with oxalate and free Ca2+ concentration in the medium was represented by a curve with an optimum for Ca2+ equal to 3-10-5 M. The threshold concentration was comprised between 5-10-7 and 10-6 7. The optimum calcium uptake rate was 4.5 nmol Ca2+/mg protein per min. In the absence of oxalate, two distinct groups of binding sites were identified. Low affinity sites had a binding constant of 7-104 M-1 and a maximum binding capacity of 0.6-106 M-1 and a binding capacity of 33 nmol Ca2+/mg protein; their capacity was sensitive to pH changes. In the absence of oxalate, Ca2+ binding was depressed by Na+ with respect to K+ or choline. When the medium was supplemented with oxalate, the stimulation of 45Ca incorporation was barely detectable in the presence of choline+ and it was lower in a medium containing Na+ instead of K+. The subcellular distribution profiles of calcium incorporation with and without oxalate indicate the microsomal location of both activities. However, the oxalate-stimulated calcium uptake activity sedimented faster than the calcium binding activity. The subcellular distribution of marker enzyme actvities has been examined. The present results indicate that Ca2+ incorporations with and without oxalate are the result of two processes likely related to two different structures. The role of microsomal calcium uptake in excitation-contraction coupling and its modification by the activity of the sodium pump is discussed.
Periarteritis nodosa and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura in siblings is reported. In both patients a localised serous retinal detachment and lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium had developed owing to choroidal vascular obstruction. These cases support the suggested possible relationship between the two conditions.
The address looks backward over the progress made in the techniques of radiology--both diagnosis and therapy--over the past 30 years and forward to the possibilities which lie ahead. It draws attention to the continuing need for basic research as the source from which practical advances spring, illustrating this from the development of radiosensitizing drugs. Finally, it emphasized the importance of the Institute as an interdisciplinary forum in the present era of rapid technological advance.
Oxalate was transported in vitro by intestinal brush border cells from rabbit and human by a non-energy-dependent diffusion mechanism. An oxalate-binding protein that had an approximate molecular weight of 73,000 was identified in the human intestine (ileum), was localized in the cytosol cell fraction, and was affected by calcium and magnesium, which increased the oxalate binding.
A dissolution-dialysis profile for each of several brands of nitrofurantoin, hydrochlorothiazide and sulfisoxazole tablets was developed at three pH levels. The study used a two-compartment diffusion cell with a semipermeable cellophane membrane. Nitrofuratoin tablets were tested at pH values of 7.2, 4.7 and 1.2; sulfisoxazole tablets at 7.2, 5.5 and less than 1. Studies with hydrochlorothiazide tablets were terminated because the pH of the dissolution medium had no effect of practical significance on dissolution or dialysis rates. The dissolution rates of the nitrofurantoin and sulfisoxazole tablets were highly brand-individualized and complex. The effects of pH upon a particular formulation were unpredictable. The results suggest that dissolution testing at one fixed pH, as commonly practiced, may be insufficient for some products. This pH-dependent release characteristic may not correspond to a change in bioavailability in all cases, but it represents a potential problem which should be considered by the formulator.
The concurrence of the infantile and adult form of acid maltase deficiency in one family is presented. The muscle of both cases possesses residual activity. The glycogen amount in the infantile form is increased tremendously, while in the late-onset the amount of glycogen is normal.
Diethazine, amitriptyline and imipramine showed bacteriostatic and bactericidal effect on different bacteria. Chlorpromazine sulphoxide and fluorescein were ineffective even at 1000 microgram/ml. The antibacterial compounds deleted at 40-70% frequency the F'lac plasmid of Escherichia coli K12 LE-140.
Measurement of the blood volume in cases of essential hypertension has shown a negative correlation with increase in blood pressure. We have been able to distinguish a group of moderate hypertensives who are hypervolemic, and whose systemic effect is more marked than in the moderate hypovolemic type. Such cases respond poorly to single drug therapy with beta blockers, but well to diuretics. The authors propose a general treatment scheme for essential hypertension: single therapy (beta blockers or diuretics) in mild cases of hypertension; single therapy by diuretics in the moderate types with the increased volume; single therapy by beta blockers in the moderate types with low volume, multiple treatment with the drugs together in cases of severe hypertension.
One hundred and eighty five strains of Gram-positive cocci were tested for susceptibility to 16 antibiotics, including some newer drugs, by agar dilution technique. Of these, 100 strains (50 each isolated in Poland and Germany) were Staphylococcus aureus, 55 Streptococcus pyogenes, and 30 Diplococcus pneumoniae. Previous investigations of streptococci and pneumococci isolated in Poland and Federal Republic of Grmany, revealed no differences in antibiotic-susceptibility patterns in both countries, which was not the case with staphylococci. Present study demonstrates further evidence for existence of differences in antibiotic-sensitivity of staphylococci, depending of their geographical origin, and presents actual state of susceptibility to antibiotics of Streptococcus pyogenes and Diplococcus pneumoniae.
In vitro addition of rat insulin (200, 400 or 800 muU/ml) to collagenase-isolated pancreatic islets of adult rats diminished glucose (3 mg/ml)-induced insulin release which was correlated with a decrease of the ratio of total NADPH/NADP and inhibition of glucose oxidation via the pentose phosphate shunt (PPS). NADH and NAD levels were not affected. It is suggested that exogenous insulin diminishes the islet total NADPH/NADP ratio by a direct or indirect decrease in PPS activity. However, it is also conceivable that insulin decreases this ratio through another mechanism than PPS. It is possible that inhibition of insulin secretion by exogenous insulin is at least in part due to the decrease of the NADPH/NADP ratio.
EcoRI methylase is able to catalyze methy incorporation into DNA at sequences other than the canonical EcoRI site. At high enzyme concentrations and over a wide range of pH and ionic strengths, EcoRI methylase modifies polyoma DNA (which contains one EcoRI site) at a number of sites. This modification prevents EcoRI endonuclease activity, and thus is presumably at or near the EcoRI sequences (5') NAATTN.
1. The absorption spectrum of quinacrine in aqueous solution, in the visible region, changes with the pH of the medium in the pH range from 6.0 to 9.0 with an isosbestic point at 353 nm. This indicates that the monoprotonated (quinacrine - H+) and the diprotonated (quinacrine - 2H+) forms of quinacrine at equilibrium in this pH range have a 1 to 1 stoichiometry. 2. The monoprotonated and the dipronated forms to quinacrine exhibit similar fluorescence emission spectra, but distinctive fluorescence excitation spectra. 3. The relative fluorescence quantum yields of quinacrine in aqueous media of various pH values are estimated. The relative fluorescence quantum yield of quinacrine at pH 9.0 is more than 3 fold of that at pH 6.0. 4. The fluorescence excitation and emission spectra, as well as the relative fluorescence quantum yield of quinacrine associated with non-energized submitochondrial membranes, are similar to those of quinacrine alone. 5. Analyses of the absorption spectra, the fluorescence excitation spectra and the relative fluorescence quantum yield indicate that the energy-linked fluorescence decrease of quinacrine associated with the energized submitochondrial membranes results from the protonation of quinacrine - H+ to form quinacrine - 2H+. 6. Quantitative data are provided indicating that the maximal efficiency of protonation of quinacrine - H+ to form quinacrine - 2H+ depends on the concentration of H+ in the membranes generated through energy coupling, and the concentration of quinacrine - H+ initially present in the reaction medium. Under optimal conditions virtually complete conversion of quinacrine - H+ into quinacrine - 2H+ is observed. 7. The fluorescence intensity of quinacrine, either alone or associated with non-energized submitochondrial membranes, decreases with increasing temperature. When quinacrine is associated with the energized membranes, however, its fluorescence intensity increases slightly with increasing temperature. This unusual fluorescence behavior towards temperature, together with the fact that under optimal conditions virtually all the quinacrine molecules associated with the energized membranes are in the diprotonated form, further substantiate our earlier conclusion that the diprotonated quinacrine molecules are tightly bound to the energized membranes in a fashion which does not permit ready equilibration with the external medium.
The immobilization of alpha-chymotrypsin, trypsin and invertase on hydrated oxides of tin, titanium and aluminium was investigated. The degree at which the enzymes were bound upon immobilization was 83.2-2.6%. The amount of bound proteins was 64.2 mg/g carrier. The specific activity of enzymes reached the highest level in the case of hydrated tin oxide and amounted to 76.8%, 49.9% and 99.6%, of activity of native alpha-chymotrypsin, trypsin and invertase, respectively. The thermal stability of immobilized proteases was considerably higher and that of immobilized invertase was significantly lower than that of native enzymes. The pH optimum of immobilized enzymes shifted by 0.6-2.6 units towards the alkaline region.
Oxarbazole (9-benzoyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-methoxycarbazole-3-carboxylic acid) was absorbed by human volunteers, rats, dogs, guinea pigs, and monkeys. In all species of laboratory animals studied, the major urinary metabolite was the product of O-demethylation, 9-benzoyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-hydroxycarbazole-3-carboxylic acid; this metabolite was conjugated in all species except the guinea pig. The dog and monkey excreted small quantities of a conjugate of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-methoxycarbazole-3-carboxylic acid in the urine. Enterohepatic circulation was demonstrated in bile duct-cannulated rats, in which almost 90% of the radioactivity of a dose of 14C-oxarbazole had been excreted into the bile within 24 hr. At the time of peak blood radioactivity, intact oxarbazole was the major constituent circulating in the bloodstream of rats and monkeys that had received 14C-oxarbazole orally. The clearance of either intact oxarbazole in man and guinea pig, or undifferentiated radioactivity in rat, dog, and monkey, did not follow the kinetics of a simple model.
The relationships between the environmental pH and the replication and spread of herps simplex virus (HSV) infection in rabbit skin (RS) cell cultures was studies. Relative to the plaque formation at pH7.0, incubation of RS cells with medium adjusted to pH 6.6 resulted in a 50 to 70 per cent decrement in plaque number. The addition of overlay media adjusted to pH 6.0 or 6.3 precluded HSV plaque formation. Select HSV-1 (type 1) and HSV (type 2) strains readily survived a 3 day incubation with medium adjusted to pH 6.3 as demonstrated by plaque production following a medium shift to pH 7.0. Rs cells incubated with medium at pH 6.3 did not replicate. The survival of RS cells incubated for 3 days with medium adjusted to pH 6.3 was demonstrated by renewed cell proliferation following a medium change from pH 6.3 to 7.0. The progeny virus yields of two HSV strains replicating in RS cells incubated with medium adjusted to pH 6.3 or 7.0 were equivalent at 24 or 48 hours post infection and were indicative of a productive infection. The inhibition of HSV plaque formation at pH 6.3 was not due to an alteration of cell receptors but was the result of an inhibition in the cell to cell spread of the virus. These results are discussed with regard to the possibility that the decline in pH associated with the inflammatory response may serve as a host defense against HSV infections.
While age is increasing involutiones specific to age can be proofed at the gastrointestinal tract, which lead to a deceleration but quantitative unchanged adsorption. Wrong nutrition concerning to the take up of fat, carbohydrates, proteins and trace elements can be found in greater age very often.  By watching a collective of healthy persons beyond the age of 90 years however it turns out that this group keeps a nearly faultless nutrition. The requirements of lysin, methionin and calcium is a little higher in old age than in younger. By intermitting starvation or addition of antioxidants life can be prolonged in experiments on animals, when this therapy starts already in younger age. Starvation in higher age, however, leads to a shortening of life in experiments on animals.
The authors carried out a study on beta-adrenergic blockers Proprafnolol, Pindolol and Practolol, on an isolated uterus of a rat, obtained at various phases oestrus. The Beta-adrenergic blocker Pindolol manifested inhibiting effect on the spontaneous contractility of the uterus more marked after elevated level of gestagens. The pharmacological analysis gave foundation to the authors to assume that the relaxation of Pindolol was due to direct myotropic action. Propranolol in large doses and at high gestagenic level manifested antioxytocic activity. Practolol did not affect both spontaneous uterine activity as oxytoxin contraction.
When grown in a chemostat under various nutritional conditions, cells of Bacillus subtilis W23 produce walls containing teichoic acid or teichuronic acid. The binding of Mg2+ to these walls and to the isolated anionic polymers in solution was measured by equilibrium dialysis. In solution the ribitol teichoic acid bound Mg2+ in the molar ratio Mg2+/P=1:1 with an apparent association constant (Kassoc.) of 0.61 X 10(3)M-1, and the teichuronic acid bound Mg2+ in the ratio Mg2+/CO2-=1.1, Kassoc.=0.3 X 10(3)M-1. Cell walls containing teichuronic acid exhibited closely similar binding properties to those containing teichoic acid; in both cases Mg2+ was bound in the ratio Mg/P or Mg/CO2- of 0.5:1 and with a greater affinity than displayed by the isolated polymers in solution. It was concluded that Mg2+ ions are bound bivalently between anionic centres in the walls and that the incorporation of teichoic acid or teichuronic acid into the walls gives rise to similar ion-binding and charged properties. The results are discussed in relation to the possible functions of anionic polymers in cell walls.
1. The hydrolysis of o-nitrophenyl beta-D-glucopyranoside by the high-molecular-weight beta-glucosidase (beta-D-glucoside glucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.21) of Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat in the absence or presence of added dioxan was found to be dependent on the ionization of two groups, which appeared to be a carboxyl group and an imidazole group. 2. Dioxan increased the Michaelis constant, Km, but decreased the maximum velocity, V.
The primary purpose of this article has been to outline and discuss the fourteen steps of the systematic approach to modular development utilized by the author. In addition, examples of each step have been included in an effort to illustrate each point. The article ends with a list of useful resources for the beginning module developer and a statement about the value of each resource.
Simplified operative technique for the long-segment atypical coarctation of the aorta was described. The main objective of this technique is to gain quick access to both thoracic and abdominal aorta with minimal blood loss, and preservation of diaphragmatic function. This procedure consists of standard thoracotomy and pararectal incision with an entry into the retroperitoneal space. Long prosthetic graft was anastomosed in an end-to-side fashion to bypass the coarctated aorta. The graft is placed through peripheral circumference of the left hemidiaphragm, where phrenic nerve injury is not likely to occur. This technique was successfully applied to two cases of long-segment atypical coarctation of the aorta due to Takayasu's aortitis. Retroperitoneal placement of the graft prevents fatal hemorrhage due to direct contact with the graft. Contamination with transintestinal exudate can also be avoided. Results of the ten-year follow-up of the similar procedure in the literature is encouraging.
The authors propose a pathogenic classification of perforations of the dura mater occurring during continuous epidural anaesthesia: according to the flow through the communication with the subarochnoid space. Two clinical forms of anaesthesia affecting the cord itself may be distinguished on this basis, one frequent and of immediate onset, diagnosed by the "test dose" and the other rare, of delayed onset, where this safety measure does not suffice. Routine prior epidurography is suggested, in order to ensure the diagnosis of dura mater perforation. In the case of the latter, it show either a more or less typical appearance of radicolography only or, more rarely, a picture which combines opacification of the epidural space with the subarachnoid passage of the contrast medium. This "mixed" appearance, although rare, should be known since it makes it possible to prevent delayed total spinal anaesthesia.
In accordance with Paolo Freire learning is not only an intake of knowledge, but it is reflection of one's own life situation and finding of new solutions. The consequence for continuous education of people who run homes for the aged is that the process of learning has to be connected with the practical experience of the participants. The long termed course of continuous education for directors of homes for the aged therefore always starts with a definition of their tasks. That leads to a definition of learning goals, which will be approached by working out and following a planned schedule for the whole course.
Heparin was introduced into the stomach or duodenum of mice separately in doses of ca. 250 mg/kg. A slight anticoagulant effect in the systemic circulation was detected in whole blood clotting times and factor X inhibition. In contrast to most drugs, more heparin was absorbed from the stomach than from the intestine. Suppressing ionization of heparin by simultaneous administration of acid resulted in improved absorption of heparin from the small intestine. Heparin was separated with ethanol into five molecular weight fraction: I, 17 999; II, 13 i99; III, 10800, IV, 8 700; and V, 6 700. Each was introduced into the duodenum of mice with citric acid. The maximum hypocoagulability was produced with fraction IV. When administered in distilled water instead of in citric acid, this heparin fraction did not produce an anticoagulant effect. These studies demonstrated that improvement of heparin absorption from the gastrointestinal tract can be obtained by the combination of suppressing ionization and selecting molecular size.
A case of sudden unexpected death in a 23 year old woman in her 8th month of pregnancy is reported. Death occurred from isolated coronary periarteritis with thrombosis. It is believed that the thrombosis was secondary to the adventitial infiltrate, which was of a type suggesting a hypersensitivity factor. It is proposed that pathogenetically this case is identical to reported cases of dissecting hemorrhage or aneurysm of the coronary artery and represents an entity different from other forms of inflammatory coronary disease.
The vascular action of 2,4'-dimethyl-3-piperidino-propiophenone hydrochloride (tolperisone hydrochloride), a centrally acting muscle relaxant, was investigated in pentobarbital anesthetized dogs. Tolperisone given intravenously produced a transient hypotension, tachycardia, and hyperventilation. The drug increased the femoral arterial flow, and decreased the superior mesenteric arterial flow following an initial transient increase. When injected directly into femoral and mesenteric arteries, tolperisone caused a rapid increase in both arterial flow (vasodilatation). However, femoral vessels were about 90 times as sensitive as mesenteric vessels to tolperisone. These results indicate that tolperisone shifts the blood volume from mesenteric (visceral) vessels to femoral (skeltal) ones. The femoral vasodilatation produced by i.a. tolperisone was not depressed by the pretreatment with i.a. propranolol, atropine or chlorphenylamine. Tolperisone decreased the contractile force in an isolated and cross-circulated papillary muscle. Tolperisone produced adrenaline reversal and antagonized the pressor response to noradrenaline. Moreover, femoral vasoconstriction caused by i.a. adrenaline was converted to vasodilatation and that caused by i.a. noradrenaline was depressed during an i.a. infusion of tolperisone. These results indicate that tolperisone blocks adrenergic alpha-receptors. The blocking action was rapid in onset, short-lived, and in addition, competitive.
In in vitro studies it was found that, in the presence of added NADPH, the human placenta metabolizes progesterone to 20alpha-hydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one at increasing rates as pregnancy advances. A fivefold increase in 20alpha-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase activity is observed in term placentas compared with the enzymic activity of placentas of 12 to 20 weeks' gestation (368 +/- 53 pmoles/mg protein/hr vs 71 +/- 8 pmoles/mg protein/hr). The 5alpha-reductase and 3beta-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase activities were similar in placentas obtained from early and late human pregnancies.
1. The corresponding cysteine conjugate was formed when the GSH (reduced glutathione) or cysteinylglycine conjugates of benzyl isothiocyanate were incubated with rat liver or kidney homogenates. When the cysteine conjugate of benzyl isothiocyanate was similarly incubated in the presence of acetyl-CoA, the corresponding N-acetylcysteine conjugate (mercapturic acid) was formed. 2. The non-enzymic reaction of GSH with benzyl isothiocyanate was rapid and was catalysed by rat liver cytosol. 3. The mercapturic acid was excreted in the urine of rats dosed with benzyl isothiocyanate or its GSH, cysteinyl-glycine or cysteine conjugate, and was isolated as the dicyclohexylamine salt. 4. An oral dose of the cysteine conjugate of [14C]benzyl isothiocyanate was rapidly absorbed and excreted by rats and dogs. After 3 days, rats had excreted a mean of 92.4 and 5.6% of the dose in the urine and faeces respectively, and dogs had excreted a mean of 86.3 and 13.2% respectively. 5. After an oral dose of the cystein conjugate of [C]benzyl isothiocyanate, the major 14C-labelled metabolite in rat urine was the corresponding mercapturic acid  (62% of the dose), whereas in dog urine it was hippuric acid (40% of the dose). 5. Mercapturic acid biosynthesis may be an important route of metabolism of certain isothiocyanates in some mammalian species.
Eleven young male Indian volunteers fasted overnight and were exposed to 6 h to cold at 8 degrees C (I), hypoxia at 4267 m at 28 degrees C (II), and cold plus hypoxia of 4267 m at , degrees C (III), in a walk-in climatic chamber, and excretion of some urinary constituents was measured. Urine output was significantly decreased in (II) and increased in (I) and (III). Urine pH significantly increased only in (II). Catecholamine excretion significantly increased only in (I). Ca++ excretion was significantly raised in (I) and (III) and lowered in (II). Na+ excretion was significantly decreased and K+ excretion remained unchanged in all three stress conditions. Cold seemed to be a greater stressor than hypoxia, under stated experimental conditions.
Frequency of idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome (IRDS) of low birth weight children was examined over 15 years (1960 to 1975) in the Frauenklinik of the Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-University of Greifswald. Possible pathogenetic risk factors were proofed. The validity of the Apgar-score and blood gas analyses for the development of IRDS was investigated. Finally, the coincidence between mode of delivery, early rupture of membrane and imminent intrauterine infection in relation to the frequency of IRDS was shown.
High-pressure liquid chromatography was used to study (a) the relative efficiencies of methanol, chloroform, light petroleum (B.P. 40-60 degrees) and methanol-chloroform (9:1) for extracting neutral and acidic cannabinoids from cannabis resin; (b) the decomposition patterns of the resulting solutions under various storage conditions, and (c) the cannabinoid profile of a cross section through a block of cannabis resin. The results show that (a) methanol is the most effective extracting solvent of those tested; (b) acidic cannabinoids in solution decompose in darkness by varying amounts depending on the temperature, solvent, storage time and particular cannabinoid; (c) neutral cannabinoids in solution are relatively stable in darkness; (d) daylight causes appreciable decomposition of both acidic and neutral cannabinoids in solution, (e) the cannabinoid profile of a resin is complex with lower levels of acidic material in the outer layers.
The effect of six antidepressants has been investigated in six groups of twenty patients suffering from depressive states. The over-all response of the six groups, as well as the response of the individual target symptoms of depression according to the Hamilton Rating Scale are reported.
Authors determined in 282 individuals autoantibodies in 132 T and B lymphozytes. Theirs results were as follows: 1. The frequency of the presence of autoantibodies increases with age. 2. In the presence of autoantibodies the absolute T and B lymphocyte counts of aged persons markedly decrease; the absolute T and B lymphozyte counts of young adult people do not change by existing autoantibodies. 3. There is a significant difference between the absolute T cell counts of aged and young adult age groups, both age-groups having autoantibodies. 4. Comparing the frequency of occurence of autoantibodies in aged healthy persons and in aged ones with cardiovascular changes and being in the habit of smoking and consuming alcohole, respectively, a significant difference could be demonstrated; in the latter group the frequency was much higher.
The 3-isopropyl (I), 3-cyclohexyl (II) and 3-phenyl (III) analogs of the new antipsychotic drug butaclamol, which contains a 3-tertiary butyl group, and their respective (+)-enantiomers, but not (-)-enantiomers, caused a dose related elevation of rat striatal homovanillic acid concentration, indicative of an increased dopamine (DA) turnover; droperidol also exhibited this activity. The order of activity of the (+)-enantiomers was (butaclamol) approximately II greater than I greater than III. A decrease in striatal DA was observed with (+)-I and (+)-III at the highest dose used, but not at one-half the dose. Each analog antagonized the DA-induced increase in adenyl cyclase (EC 4.6.1.1) activity of olfactory tubercle homogenates, the order of activity of the racemates (except for II) AND (+)-ENANTIOMERS BEING (BUTACLAMOL) APPROXIMATELY I greater than III greater than II. The (+)-enantiomers of butaclamol and analogs were two to four times more potent than their respective racemates, with (+)-butaclamol and (+)-I displaying activity generally equivalent to fluphenazine. The respective (-)-enantiomers were ineffective indicating a stereochemical specificity for DA-receptor blockade. Such analogs presented should be of value in elucidating dopaminergic mechansims.
Forward and reverse reactions of catalysis by a hydrogenase from T. roseopersicina in steady state have been investigated. The dependance of reaction rate on the concentration of substrates and of hydrogen ions has been studied. Detailed formal-kinetic analysis of possible mechanisms of enzyme action has been carried out and the classification of mechanisms of the reaction has been given. Comparison of experimental data with the equations obtained from formal-kinetic analysis has been undertaken and mechanisms compatible with experimental data were sorted out. Kinetic and molecular mechanism of the catalytic activity of hydrogenase has been proposed and elementary rate constants for the activation of molecular hydrogen have been calculated.
Adult male rats were either castrated, thyroidectomized, or treated with haloperidol and the rates of turnover of dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) in the median eminence (ME), the arcuate and dorsomedial nuclei of the hypothalamus were estimated from the rate of decay of DA and NE concentrations as determined by radioenzymatic assay following blockade of catecholamine synthesis by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. The ME of animals similarly prepared was also examined for changes in the total activity and kinetic properties of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Four days following the administration of haloperidol (400 microgram/kg) or 10 days after castration, there was a significant increase in the rate of turnover of DA but not NE in the ME accompanied by an increase in the Vmax but not Km for the substrate or cofactor of TH. Furthermore, the administration of haloperidol to hypophysectomized rats also significantly increased the TH activity in the ME, indicating that such changes may occur independently of any changes in serum prolactin levels. Ten days after thyroidectomy, or three weeks after treatment with prophylthiouracil, there was a significant increase in the turnover rate of DA in both the ME and dorsomedial nucleus but not in the arcuate nucleus. No changes in the turnover rates of NE in any of the three areas were observed following thyroidectomy. In the ME, the increase in turnover of DA was accompanied by an increase in the total TH activity (Vmax) as welll as a decrease in Km for tetrahydrobiopterin but not tyrosine. From these results 4 conclusions were drawn: (1) following halperidol, castration, and thyroidectomy there are increases in the activity of dopaminergic terminals within the ME; (2) castration, haloperidol and thyroidectomy may influence the activity of dopaminergic terminals within the ME by different mechanisms; (3) changes in tyrosine hydroxylase and turnover of catecholamines within the ME may occur independently of changes in prolactin levels; and (4) local recurrent afferent circuits may exist in the arcuate nucleus region of the hypothalamus.
Adverse drug reactions involving different organs, including the lung, are numerous; much more numerous, however, are the offending drugs. According to the results of the Boston Collaborative Drug Surveillance Program, adverse reactions occur in about 6% of all drug exposures and 28% of all patients. Drug-induced lung diseases may present as bronchial reactions (e.g. bronchial asthma), diseases of the parenchyma (e.g. pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia, diffuse fibrosing alveolitis), of the pulmonary vasculature (vasculitis) and of the pleura (e.g. pleurisy or pleural fibrosis). Pathogenetically the two most pertinent types of reaction are hypersensitivity or toxic reactions, and less often biologic reactions such as opportunistic infections after cytotoxic and immunosuppressive therapy. Many drug-induced respiratory diseases are reversible upon withdrawal of the offending agent; others may be irreversibly or even progress.
1. A systematic study has been made of the sensitivity of identified sensory and motoneurons in the leech central nervous system to chemical transmitter substances. 2. The following substances elicited responses from the cell bodies of individual neurons: acetylcholine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, glutamic acid, glycine, dopamine, and norepinephrine. Since the cell bodies of leech neurons are free of synapses, the receptors that give rise to these responses are extrasynaptic. 3. Sensory and motoneurons of different function had characteristic complements of extrasynaptic receptors. For example, mechanosensory cells responding to light touch, to pressure, and to noxious stimuli could be distinguished by their responses to iontophoretically applied compounds. For one of these modalities (nociceptive), neurons with different receptive fields but otherwise similar properties had markedly distinct extrasynaptic receptors. The possible significance of extrasynaptic receptors is discussed.
1. The method of estimating the intralysosomal pH by measuring the distribution of [14C]methylamine in lysosomes isolated from the livers of Triton WR 1339-treated rats has been critically examined. 2. In lysed lysosomes, methylamine is bound to the membrane fragments, but this binding can be completely suppressed by increasing the concentration of monovalent cations in the medium. 3. In intact lysosomes, the binding of [14C]methylamine is only partly inhibited by monovalent cations at 25 degrees C. 4. THe accumulation of [14C]methylamine in intact lysosomes is progressively inhibited as the concentration of methylamine is increased. A similar inhibition of [14C]methylamine accumulation is obtained with NH4Cl. 5. Similar values for the intralysosomal pH were obtained from measurements of the distribution of methylamine, dimethylamine and trimethylamine, which are accumulated in the lysosomes, and of 5,5-dimethyloxazolidinedione-2,4, which is excluded. 6. The breakdown of endocytosed 123I-labelled bovine serum albumin by intact isolated lysosomes is much less sensitive to the pH of the medium than the breakdown of added protein by lysed lysosomes. 7. The intralysosomal pH has been estimated by comparing the rate of breakdown of endocytosed 125I-labelled albumin in intact lysosomes as a function of medium pH with that of added 125I-labelled albumin by lysed lysosomes at different pH values. The values obtained agree well with those calculated from the distribution of [14C]methylamine. 8. Methylamine and NH4Cl inhibit the breakdown of 125I-labelled albumin in intact lysosomes, particularly at high medium pH, but have no effect on the breakdown by lysed lysosomes. 9. It is concluded that a pH difference across the lysosomal membrane (more acidic inside than outside) is maintained by the presence of indiffusible negatively charged groups within the lysosomes, and by the permeation across the lysosomal membrane of protons together with permeant anions (or of OH- in exchange for anions).
By means of an autoradiographic technique employing 14C-2-deoxyglucose, abnormalities of local brain glucose utilization were studied 90 minutes following occlusion of the left middle cerebral and common carotid arteries in a series of pentobarbital-anesthetized cats. Sham-insulted control animals exhibited a normal pattern of regional glucose utilization. In animals with vascular occlusion, a zone of greatly suppressed glucose utilization occupied the caudate nucleus of the ischemic hemisphere, with variable extension, and was surrounded by a narrow rim of increased local brain glucose utilization, suggesting the occurrence of enhanced anaerobic glycolysis in the latter zones. The cerebral cortex, which was less constantly affected, showed alternating regions of increased and decreased glucose utilization. Quantitation of local brain glucose utilization values from the contralateral nonischemic hemisphere revealed a mild suppression of cortical glucose utilization relative to the control animals. This may be the metabolic equivalent of diaschisis.
(--)-Hydroxycitrate and (+)-allo-hydroxycitrate were investigated for their effects on lipid synthesis in vivo under conditions of either high carbohydrate feeding or 24 hr fasting. Changes in rates of lipid synthesis resulting from the oral administration of these compounds were monitored with the use of radiolabeled H2O, alanine, and acetate. In the fed rat, (--)-hydroxycitrate significantly reduced the incorporation of H2O and alanine into fatty acids and cholesterol. An increased incorporation of labeled H2O into fatty acids but no change in cholesterol synthesis in the fasted rat suggested that (--)-hydroxycitrate may be an activator of acetyl CoA carboxylase. With (--)-hydroxycitrate administration, acetate incorporation into fatty acids and cholesterol was subject to pool dilution effects under fed or fasted states. (+)-allo-Hydroxycitrate was ineffective in modulating the rates of fatty acid synthesis under either nutritional condition. Both (--)-hydroxycitrate and (+)-allo-hydroxycitrate were shown to be in vitro activators of acetyl CoA carboxylase, the former being a much stronger activator than the latter. Thus, stereospecificity of the hydroxycitrate isomers was demonstrated in both the inhibition of lipid synthesis (previously shown to occur at adenosine triphosphate citrate lyase) and the stimulation of fatty acid synthesis (possibly occurring at acetyl CoA carboxylase).
Dobutamine (DOB) showed a dose dependent positive introphic effect on the right ventricular muscle of vagotomized Beagle dogs under pentobarbital anesthesia. Positve inotropic effects of other catecholamines (CA) decreased in the following order; isoproterenol (Iso, 115) greater than norepinephrine (NE, 15) greater than DOB (1) greater than dopamine (DA, 0.36). Brachiocephalic arterial flow was also increased by DOB with a positive inotropic effect in the right ventricular muscle. Though the positive inotropic effect of DOB was slightly decreased by pretreatment with phenoxybenzamine, such was almost completely antagonized by propranolol. Contractions of isolated cat papillary muscle driven by electrical stimulation (12 beats/min) were increased by CA in the following order; Iso (17) greater than NE (3) greater than epinephrine (2.5) greater than DOB (1) greater than DA (1 greater than). Activity of DOB to induce spontaneous contractions of papillary muscle was weakest among these CA. To determine the arrhythmogenic effect of these CA, coronary ligated Beagle dogs were employed, in which the anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery was ligated. Arrhythmogenic activity of DOB was weaker than other CA employed both in early stages and 48 hr after coronary ligation. DOB shows good potential for treating acute cardiac insufficiency and cardiogenic shock, as effects on heart rate and blood pressure are weaker.
Dynamics and changes in the biochemical composition in the interstitial fluid and the muscle water were studied in hemorrhagic shock. The interstitial fluid was collected from implanted perforated capsules. Muscle biopsies were examined with regard to their water content by the steady state magnetic nuclear resonance spectroscopy. The consistent and what appears to be the most significant changes were the fall in the interstitial fluid pressures, the quantitative reduction of muscle water, a sharp fall in the blood and interstitial blood pH, the moderate hyperkalemia and lack of change in blood an interstitial fluid sodium, and the rise in blood glucose levels not accompanied by a rise in the interstitial fluid glucose levels.
The risk of surgical operation is increased by the presence of heart disease. The statistics are too limited for this risk to be expressed more precisely. The heart in the elderly is no longer a normal heart. The myocardial functional reserve declines, the quality of the A.V. conduction is not always good and vascular fibrosis progresses. Surgical operation thus increases the risk of a cardio-vascular accident. One should distinguish the risk due simply to old age. The existence of known heart disease often leads to heart failure which is difficult to treat. The great risk of surgical operation is then the risk of overloading the heart. In the absence of known heart disease, one should beware of latent coronary insufficiency. The major risk is then hypoxia. The special problem of degenerative A.V. conduction disorders may require the insertion of a pace-maker. Pre-opratoire cardio-vascular assessment is thus necessary in the elderly subject. It should, however, remain simple. Careful history and auscultation, verification of the periphral arteries, chest XRay and E.C.G.
The denaturation of subtilisin BPN' (EC 3.4.21.14) in guanidine hydrochloride was studied in order to find possible reasons for the exceptional stability of this enzyme against the action of denaturing agents including guanidine hydrochloride. Chemically modified subtilisins, i.e., phenylmethanesulfonylsubtilisin and thio-subtilisin, were  completely denatured in 2 M guanidine hydrochloride at pH 7 without autolysis but they were stable in 0.5 M guanidine hydrochloride for at least 60 h. On the other hand, once completely denatured, the subtilisins remained inactive and in highly unfolded conformations for 60 h or longer after transfer into 0.5 M guanidine solution at pH 7 or 9. No enzymatic activity was regained when the guanidine concentration was lowered to almost zero. We concluded from these and other results described in this paper that this enzyme was thermodynamically unstable in 2 M guanidine hydrochloride at 20 degrees C and at pH 7. We wish to point out the possibility that the denaturation of this enzyme could indeed be irreversible.
Plasma levodopa decay curves appeared to be triexponential up to 6 hr after single intravenous injections of levodopa in rats, rabbits, and dogs. After pretreatment of each of these three species with benserazide (Ro-4-4602), a decarboxylase inhibitor, plasma levodopa concentrations declined biexponentially. Administration of benserazide decreased both total plasma clearance and apparent volume of distribution of levodopa, but did not change the rate constant of the terminal phase of the plasma levodopa decay curve. Thus, decarboxylase inhibition failed to alter the plasma half-life of levodopa.
Repetitive stimulation of a single medullated nerve fiber of Xenopus yields a succession of postspike voltage-time curves which are nearly coincident until attainment of a voltage that corresponds to that of the maximum attained by the normal postspike undershoot. Initially the interspike potential returns toward a resting level after this brief phase of hyperpolarization. However, as tetanization proceeds, a pattern of hyperpolarization develops with the result that, in the tetanic steady state, there exists a progressive hyperpolarization throughout each interspike interval. Extent of postspike hyperpolarization in terms of a deviation deltaVm from the resting level of membrane potential is approximated by the variation deltaVm = delta[MNa + MK]/[GNa + GK] where MNa and MK are current densities associated with active pumping of sodium and potassium ions and GNa and GK are corresponding time-dependent leak conductances. Tetanic hyperpolarization is reversibly abolished by cyanide and by exposure to lithium Ringer. Eventual reappearance of tetanic hyperpolarization in the presence of lithium Ringer suggests lithium pumping.
In a shock-escape T-maze task, rats rapidly discriminated diazepam, flurazepam and chloridazepoxide from no drug. The discriminable effects of these benzodiazepines were not completely interchangeable with those of barbiturate anesthetics. The dose-response curve for diazepam asymptoted over the range 15 to 100 mg/kg, ip whereas dose-response curves for flurazepam and chloridazepoxide were more linear.
A mutant of Bacillus subtilis synthesizes a variety of omega-alicyclic fatty acids when fed with the respective alicyclic carboxylic acids. These fatty acids are: omega-cyclopropane, omega-cyclobutane, omega-cyclopentane, omega-cyclohexane, and omega-cyclohexene fatty acids. These unusual fatty acids did not lead to an inhibition of growth at 37 degrees C and pH 7. The selective advantage of these fatty acids under extrene conditions was studied in comparison with the acidophilic, thermophilic bacterium B. acidocaldarius, which normally contains a high proportion of omega-cyclohexane fatty acids.
A review if given of the use of propranolol in hypertension emphasizing the importance of the studies by Prichard and Gillam in 1964 and 1969. The current use of propranolol in hypertension as regards dosage, dose intervals and starting doses is also outlined. Moreover, the combined treatment with propranolol and vasodilators is briefly described, as are attempts to make predictions of the therapeutic response by studying various haemodynamic and laboratory parameters. Finally, an attempt is made to assess the future role of propranolol in the treatment of hypertension in comparison with other antihypertensive drugs.
Compression data from different size fractions of lactose, chloroquine diphosphate, stearic acid and calcium carbonate have been analysed using the Walker and the Heckel compression equations. Points of inflection in graphs of log applied pressure vs the reciprocal of the packing fraction at low pressures corresponded closely to figures for theoretical packing conditions for equisized spheres and are attributed to a change in the stage of compression. The degree of particle slippage and rearrangement taking place during compression has been shown to increase as the particle size of the powder decreases and to be more extensive for powders composed of non-spherical particles. In addition, three types of compression behaviour have been distinguished for the four powders studied.
For understanding age peculiarities of gastric secretory function in aging.tory function in aging.tory function regulation, the investigation of nervous influences on gastric secretion is of importance. With this end in view the unconditioned reflex stimulus- the tube with rubber balloon, containing 10 ml of water and conditioned reflex stimulus - food stimulus were employed. The fractional gastric intubation was carried out. The gastric secretion in response to mechanical stimulus was investigated in 125 persons aged 60-89 and in 40 persons aged 20-25 (control group). In response to conditioned reflex stimulus it was studied in 30 persons aged 60-89 and 10 persons aged 20-35 (control group). With aging the response of gastric glands to unconditioned and conditioned stimuli was found to decrease. The amount of secretion, hydrochloric acid, pepsin, and gastromuco-protein were decreased, the secretory effect being more slowly developed, the torpid secretion type being observed. The above facts testify to changes of nervous regulation of gastric secre
Like other polypeptide hormones, purified intact parathyroid hormone (1-84)parathyroid hormone is notoriously unstable and is subject to large adsorptive losses in routine laboratory manipulation. The present studies were undertaken with 125I-labeled hormone to quantitate the problem and to develop preventative measures, particularly with concentrations of physiological interest, 1 . 10(-10) M. It was found that spontaneous cleavage of the hormone takes place upon its incubation in air or oxygen. This can be prevented by the presence of mercaptoethanol or by plasma levels of cysteine and ascorbate. Under non-cleavage conditions, adsorption was found to be extensive on all materials tested. This adsorption increased with time up to 2 h, was independent of ionic strength, increased with increasing temperature and was presumed to involve hydrophobic interactions. Under given conditions, adsorption was proportional to concentration (constant percentage). However, at very high concentrations, 1 . 10(-6) M, adsorption was markedly reduced. Adsorption was minimized at low pH (2). Bovine serum albumin reduced adsorption under all conditions when present at concentrations of 2 mg/ml or more. Coating laboratory ware with cetyl alcohol also was helpful. Using optimal conditions, cleavage is prevented and losses are less than 5% at neutral pH, and under 2% at pH 2.
Glutamate dehydrogenase (E.C. 14.1.3) was localized in the mitochondria from heart, gill, mantle and hepatopancreas of this euryhaline bivalve mollusc. Activity levels were low (0.1-0.4 mumoles/min/g wet weight) in all tissues when assayed in the glutamate forming direction. Partially purified gill mitochondrial GDH was most active at pH 8.5. The rate in the glutamate deaminating direction was 10-20% of the rate in the glutamate forming direction. ADP at apparent Ka concentrations of micrometer (glutamate formation) and 170 micrometer (glutamate deamination) enhanced GDH activity, 8- and 4-fold respectively. GDH, in vivo, is probably in the activated form and appears to function in glutamate synthesis rather than ammonia formation. However, based on the low activities obtained, the role of GDH in salinity induced amino acid synthesis seems minimal.
Cortical granules are secretory vesicles bound to the inner surface of the plasma membrane of sea urchin eggs. Intact granules can be isolated by shearing away the cytoplasm of eggs which have been bonded to a protamine-coated surface. When Ca2+ is added to preparations of isolated granules the granules fuse with each other and release their contents. It is believed that isolated cortical granules may be an excellent model system for the biochemical study of exocytosis.
As reported in the preceding study, the ability of certain antipsychotic and adrenolytic agents to inhibit the spontaneous firing of serotonergic 5HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus appeared to be related to adrenergic blocking efficacy. However, the interaction between adrenergic and serotonergic systems was apparently indirect. In this phase of the study we investigated the hypothesis that another transmitter system could mediate this interaction. We examined the effects of two inhibitory amino acid transmitters (GABA and glycine) for possible effects on dorsal raphe cell firing using single cell recording and microiontophoretic techniques. In addition, the ability of the GABA antagonist, picrotoxin and the glycine antagonist, strychnine to reverse the effects of the antipsychotic and alpha-blocking drugs on dorsal raphe firing was tested. Both GABA and glycine were found to inhibit raphe cell firing selectively, allowing for a possible neurotransmitter function for these amino acids within the dorsal raphe nucleus. However, picrotoxin but not strychnine was found to reverse the effects of the antipsychotic and alpha-blocking drugs on raphe firing. Based on these results, we propose that the adrenergic input may influence 5HT neurons indirectly via a GABAergic interneuron or interposed GABA neuron.
Proton magnetic resonance studies of the acid-base chemistry of the glycyl ammonium, histidyl imidazolium, and lysyl ammonium groups of glycyl-L-histidyl-L-lysine and of the glycyl ammonium and histidyl imidazolium groups of glycyl-L-histidine and glycyl-L-histidylglycine are described. Chemical-shift data indicate that, at the molecular level, the glycyl ammonium and the histidyl imidazolium groups are titrated over the same pH range, with the acidity of the imidazolium group some 8 to 10 times that of the glycyl ammonium group, depending on the peptide. The lysyl ammonium group of Gly-His-Lys is much less acidic and is titrated over a higher pH range. Microscopic and macroscopic acid-dissociation constants were determined from chemical-shift data for each of the peptides. It is shown how microscopic formation constants for protonated metal complexes of these ligands, which are being used increasingly as models for the binding of metal ions by proteins, can be calculated from the macroscopic formation constants and the microscopic acid-dissociation constants. The acid-base chemistry of Gly-His-Lys is discussed with respect to its recently discovered biological activity.
An in vitro microbial assay system employing two histidine-dependent strains of Salmonella typhimurium, TA1535 and TA100, was used to test the mutagenicities of enflurane, methoxyflurane, isoflurane and fluroxene. Enflurane, isoflurane and fluroxene in concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 30 per cent and methoxyflurane in concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 7 per cent were incubated with bacteria in the presence or absence of homogenates of liver prepared from rats pretreated with the enzyme inducer, Aroclor 1254. Enflurane, methoxyflurane, isoflurane, and urines from patients anesthetized with these agents were not mutagenic. Fluroxene, however, was highly mutagenic, and therefore poses a possible hazard for operating room personnel and patients.
gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase is associated with the membranes of a number of epithelial and lymphoid cells. When the enzyme is isolated from rat kidney by a method involving detergent extraction and affinity chromatography, an aggregate of molecular weight greater than 200,000 (heavy form) is obtained. Treatment of the heavy form with bromelain yields a light form of the enzyme (molecular weight of approximately 68,000), which is separable by isoelectric focusing into 12 enzymatically active isozymes which are very similar with respect to catalytic behavior, content of amino acids, hexoses, and aminohexoses, but which differ significantly in sialic acid content. Treatment with neuraminidase converts the acidic isozymes to more basic forms. Each isozyme dissociates in sodium dodecyl sulfate into two nonidentical glycopeptides (molecular weights of 46,000 and 22,000) which can be cross-linked with dimethylsuberimidate to yield a species with an apparent molecular weight of 70,000, which indicates that the isozymes are dimers. Physical and immunological studies indicate that the heavy form of the enzyme contains the dimeric light form as well as other membrane proteins.
Reduction of the chromophores of mitochondrial NADH-ubiquinone reductase by NADPH reaches only 50% of the extent of reduction by NADH, monitored at 450 nm. This effect is due to autoxidation of an enzyme component at a higher rate than its reduction by NADPH.
Studies were carried out on a yearling Holstein with external genitalia resembling those of a freemartin whose birth and developmental history was unknown. Dissection following slaughter showed testes close to the external inguinal rings, an underdeveloped penis coiled up subcutaneously in the perineum and terminating in a deep fossa at the level of the ischial arch and no evidence of a female genital tract. Chromosome analyses showed 60,XY cells in the blood and 60,XX and 61,XX,+cen cells in other tissues. It is postulated that the animal had a basic 60,XX/61,XX+cen mixoploid chromosome constitution, that the centric fragment functioned as a Y chromosome or as an autosomal modifier of the X chromosome in sex determination which accounted for the animal's Klinefelter syndrome-like abnormalities, and that animal was also twin to a bull which accounted for the presence of 60,XY cells in the blood.
Glycidyl methacrylate gels are carriers suitable for attachment of enzymes and for use in affinity chromatography. Experiments on the coupling of glycyl-L-leucine and acetyl-L-leucine to these gels have shown a high pH-dependence of the bond formation between the support and the alpha-amino group (pH optimum 9.7); the coupling reaction between the epoxide group and the carboxyl group is practically pH-independent. Serum albumin and trypsin were attached to a greater extent in acidic than in alkaline media. The effects of time and temperature were also studied. The catalytic action of immobilized trypsin, as well as its use for affinity chromatography of trypsin inhibitor, were studied.
Changes in the total CO2 content of tissues were determined in order to characterize variations in intracellular acid-base parameters during the onset of hypercapnia. Within two minutes after an increasement in the CO2 tension of the inspired air of rats, there were large increases in the intracellular bicarbonate concentrations of both cardiac and skeletal muscles. Greater changes occurred in the heart, and its intracellular pH remained near normal during the first hour of hypercapnia; whereas there was an intracellular acidosis in skeletal muscle. This greater capacity of the heart to buffer excess CO2 has been linked to an increased movement of bicarbonate ions into and/or hydrogen ions out of cardiac cells during hypercapnia (Lai et al., 1973c). Yet, the buffer capacity of the heart was not compromised by metabolic acidosis during which there was a greatly reduced extracellular bicarbonate ion concentration and a greatly increased extracellular hydrogen ion concentration. The intracellular pH of the cardiac ventricle was stable following the imposition of a noncarbonic acid load on normocapnic rats.
Short term exposure of PC-12 cells to dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dB-cAMP) results in an activation of tyrosine hydroxylase. In the cell-free system the PC-12 tyrosine hydroxylase activity is stimulated by addition of c-AMP, Mg+2 and ATP. Exogenous c-AMP dependent protein kinase further stumulates tyrosine hydroxylase activity. The kinetic data suggests that the PC-12 tyrosine hydroxylase in the basal state is in a non-phosphorylated form but under phosphorylating conditions the enzyme is activated and its kinetics properties are altered.
The oxidation of lactate by lactate dehydrogenase of human serum is described, and the kinetics of the reaction are examined. It seems that at higher pH values which are optimal for the faster moving isoenzymes of lactate dehydrogenase, slower moving entities show only a part of their activity. In contrast, M type isoenzymes are active at lower pH values, where H type entities are partly inactivated.
At 24 h after injection of 16-day chick embryos with [C-3H]pyridoxine hydrochloride, some of this label appears in the epiphysial cartilage. Over 35% of this radioactivity appears in the form of [G-3H]pyridoxal and a further 30% as other vitamin B-6 compounds. Partial purification of lysyl oxidase from the labelled epiphysial cartilage reveals a single peak of radioactivity coinciding with a single peak of enzyme activity. On dialysis against phosphate-buffered saline, 75% of this radioactivity is found to be non-diffusible. After incubation with isonicotinic acid hydrazide, a carbonyl reagent that appears to inhibit lysyl oxidase both in vivo and in vitro, a further 70% of the radioactivity is lost, with a roughly corresponding loss of enzyme activity. It is suggested that a form of vitamin B-6 is required as a cofactor of lysyl oxidase, and that this may have important implications in terms of connective-tissue metabolism.
1. Hypoxanthines, bearing at position 8 aryl or pyridyl substituents, are converted by bovine milk xanthine oxidase (xanthine: oxygen oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.3.2) into the corresponding xanthines at low rates. Oxidation is accelerated considerably when the 8-pyridyl substituents are quaternised. 2. In the enzymic oxidation of quaternary 8-pyridylhypoxanthines a lag phase precedes the attainment of a constant, maximal reaction rate. It is assumed that the delay is due to a relatively slow conformational change in the active enzymic center. 3. In 8-(3'-N-methylpyridinio)xanthine betaine, also the pyridinium moiety is attacked at high pH (9-11) to yield an N-methyl-2-pyridone. The analogous pyridone is the only oxidation product of 1-methyl-8-(3'-N-methylpyridinio)-hypoxanthine betaine, which is not attacked in the pyrimidine ring. 4. The cationic substrates are attracted to the enzyme by an anionic group, which probably forms an ion pair with a protonated amino group in or near the active center.
Equine influenza type 2 infections occurred in the Newmarket areas in January 1976. The disease did not spread to any extent and while this may have been due to recent vaccination it was found that not all vaccinated horses were fully protected. The virus involved showed some antigenic drift from the prototype strain A/equine/Miami/1/63 (Heq 2 Neq 2).
The extrusion apparatus of the microsporidian parasitic protozoan Nosema michaelis discharges an invasion (or polar) tube with a velocity suitalbe for piercing cells and injecting infective sporoplasm. The tube is composed of a polar tube protein (PTP) which consists of a single, low molecular weight polypeptide slightly smaller than chymotrypsinogen-A. Assembled PTP tubes resist dissociation in sodium dodecyl sulfate and brief exposures in media at extreme ends of the pH range; however, the tubes are reduced by mercaptoethanol and dithiothreitol. When acidified, mercaptoethanol-reduced PTP self-assembles into plastic, two-dimensional monolayers. Dithiothreitol-reduced PTP will not reassemble when acidified. Evidence is presented which indicates that PTP is assembled as a tube within the spore; that the ejected tube has plasticity during sporoplasm passage; and, finally, that the subunits within the tube polymer are bound together, in part, by interprotein disulfide linkages.
Human fibrinogen was treated at pH 6.0, 7.3 and 9.0 with thrombin, batroxobin (thrombin-like fraction of Bothrops atrox venom) or an extract of the venom from Ancistrodon contortrix contortrix. These three enzymes released the NH2-terminal fibrinopeptides A and B at different rates. Thrombin-free, preactivated factor XIII (factor XIIIa) was added to incubation mixtures to stabilize resulting fibrin(ogen) aggregates. Cross-linking of gamma-chains and the size of covalently linked fibrin-fibrinogen oligomers were studied in an early stage of fibrinopeptide cleavage using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate. Batroxobin (pH 7.3) and thrombin (pH 6.0) preferentially released fibrinopeptide A, and resulting fibrin aggregates became rapidly insoluble. However, when fibrinopeptide B was removed with the contortrix enzyme, soluble cross-linked oligomers appeared initially. The opaque fibrin clots, produced by thrombin (pH 6.0) or contortrix procoagulant fraction (pH 7.3), were found to be devoid of alpha-polymers even after prolonged incubation with factor XIIIa. Our data suggest that the solubility and opacity of fibrin networks are not primarily related to the type of the cross-link (gamma-gamma versus alpha-alpha interactions).
When crude rat liver preparations were incubated at 30degrees C, a gradual loss of phosphorylase kinase (ATP:phosphorylase b phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.38) activity was observed. This inactivation was Mg2+ dependent and was partially inhibited by sodium fluoride. Addition of Mg2+ ATP to the liver preparations, at any time throughout the incubation, caused a reactivation of the phosphorylase kinase and this was accelerated by micromolar concentrations of cyclic AMP. The reactivation process could be completely abolished by the addition of a heat stable protein kinase inhibitor, implicating cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase in the activation reaction. Both the low and the high activity forms of the enzyme required micromolar quantities of Ca2+ for full activity (KA = 0.6 micronM). The two forms exhibit quite different pH dependencies and at the physiological pH of liver (pH 7.4) their activities differed by a factor of 5-10. Conversion of the lower activity form into the higher seems to affect only the V - Km for muscle phosphorylase b (EC 2.4.1.1) was about 1 mg/ml for both enzyme forms.
1 Histamine produced a dose-dependent contraction of the isolated portal vein of the rabbit. This contraction was not antagonized by atropine, methysergide, indomethacin, cocaine or 6-hydroxy-dopamine, nor by pretreatment of the rabbit with reserpine. 2 The response to histamine was blocked by H1-receptor antagonists only when the blocking agent was used in very high concentrations, and was not antagonized by the H2-receptor blocking agent, metiamide, H1-receptor antagonists did not block the effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine. 3 The contractions elicited by histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenaline were blocked by phentolamine. 4 Desensitization to high doses of 5-hydroxytryptamine caused a concomitant depression in the response to histamine but not to noradrenaline or acetylcholine. 5 The results suggest that the contractions of rabbit portal vein elicited by histamine are not mediated by receptors of the H1- or the H2-type, but may involve an action of histamine at a receptor which is also involved in the action of 5-hydroxytryptamine.
Several factors are influencing role expansion for registered nurses, among them the shortage of primary care physicians, the federal government, the physician's assistant movement, the growing complexity of acute hospital care, educational reform, and the women's liberation movement. As state licensure statutes are revised to allow for role expansion, the changing laws themselves become a factor supporting the movement.
Substrate oxidation by rat kidney slices regulates renal ammoniagenesis from glutamine. At concentrations close to those expected in plasma, lactate alone, or combined with other renal fuels, inhibits ammoniagenesis markedly; glucose and citrate decrease ammoniagenesis slightly. However, lactate, citrate, and glucose inhibit ammoniagenesis of kidney slices from acidotic rats less than ammoniagenesis of kidney slices from control rats. Lesser inhibition of ammoniagenesis is seen also when acidotic slices rather than control slices are incubated in the presence of all the tested substrates combined in the same medium. In addition to decreasing the ammoniagenesis of renal slices from control rats, the presence of lactate causes an augmented accumulation of glutamate. In contrast, adding lactate to acidotic slices does not increase glutamate accumulation nearly as much. When glutamate is substituted for glutamine in the medium, lactate still decreases ammonia production, but to a lesser extent with acidotic slices. Changes in medium pH from 7.0 to 7.8 have no, or only small, overall effects on net renal slice ammonia production from glutamine under any of the circumstances tested. We conclude that lactate alone and combined with other substrates decreases ammoniagenesis primarily at the glutamate dehydrogenase step and that slices from acidotic rats are relatively resistant to substrate mediated inhibition.
Rat liver microsomes, NADPH-regenerating system, and 1beta, 2beta-3H-testosterone have been incubated in vitro. The loss of tritium from the steroid, associated with aromatization of testosterone, was linear with time for 20 min and required NADPH. Pre-treatment of the rats with thioacetamide raised the liberation of tritium from 1beta, 2beta-3H-testosterone. The results suggest that liver damage by thioacetamide in rats may give rise to increased aromatization of testosterone.
A new beta-receptor blocker (Celiprolol) was characterized in man by haemodynamic studies carried out on a random cross-over basis in 6 volunteers before and after intravenous administration of the drug or propranolol. The studies were performed at rest and in response to ergometer exercise. The studies showed that: 1. Celiprolol is a cardio-selective beta-receptor blocker with pronounced intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. Hence, Celiprolol increases the heart rate and cardiac output at rest. 2. The heart rate was reduced by Celiprolol during pronounced physical exercise. 3. Celiprolol probably has only a very slight blocking effect on those, beta1-receptors which mediate a positive inotropic effect. 4. The increase in blood pressure during exercise was less pronounced during Celiprolol medication than with propranolol.
The limited stability of immobilised enzymes is a major factor restricting their use in clinical chemistry. The immobilisation procedure described here affords a simple method of enhancing the stability of certain enzymes immobilised on nylon. Studies with alcohol dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase have indicated that a significant increase in stability can be obtained using this immobilisation procedure as compared with conventional procedures. As anticipated the immobilisation procedure was unsatisfactory for oxidases such as glucose oxidase.
The metabolic disposition of different doses of [14C] safrole were studied in rat and man. In both species, small amounts of orally administered safrole were absorbed rapidly and then excreted almost entirely within 24 h in the urine. In the rat, when the dose was raised from 0.6 to 750 mg/kg, a marked decrease in the rate of elimination occurred as only 25% of the dose was excreted in the urine in 24 h. Furthermore, at the high dose level, plasma and tissue concentrations of both unchanged safrole and its metabolites remained elevated for 48 h probably indicating impairment of the degradation/excretion pathways. The main urinary metabolite in both species was 1,2-dihydroxy-4-allylbenzene which was excreted in a conjugated form. Small amounts of eugenol or its isomer 1-methoxy-2-hydroxy-4-allylbenzene were also detected in rat and man. 1'-Hydroxysafrole, a proximate carcinogen of safrole, and 3'-hydroxyisosafrole were detected as conjugates in the urine of the rat. However, in these investigations we were unable to demonstrate the presence of the latter metabolites in man.
Large-scale propagation of mycobacteriophage R1 in broth culture has allowed the isolation of quantities of virus sufficient for characterization of its nucleic acid and lipid components as well as investigation of its ultrastructural attributes. Analysis of R1 DNA indicates that it is double stranded and possesses a molecular weight of 2.5 X 10(7) and a guanine-plus-cytosine content of 65.7 +/- 0.5%. The lipid fraction of R1 accounts for 14% of the total dry weight of the virus, 20% of which was identified as free or esterified sterols. A rapid loss of viral titer occurred after seconds of exposure to organic solvents. This result suggests that the lipid fractions of R1 is essential for its infectivity.  Electron microscopic investigation of solvent-extracted R1 showed extensive deterioration of its normal morphology, including nucleocapsid disintegration and base plate separation. Routine phosphotungstate preparations demonstrated a particle with an oval head and a noncontractile tail. Altering the pH of the phosphotungstate negative stain from neutrality damage the viral particles. Uranyl formate-contrasted specimens displayed an elongated hexagonal nucleocapsid with a neck region; the cross-striated tail possessed a starlike base plate.
The alpha-adrenoceptor blocking agent, tolazoline, and the O-methylated metabolite of adrenaline, metanephrine, produced a concentration-dependent increase of tension in the smooth muscle of the cat isolated nictitating membrane. These effects were considered to be due to the activation of postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors. 2 The responses to nerve stimulation of this muscle were neither potentiated nor blocked by tolazoline (0.1 to 10 micrometer) or metanephrine (1 to 10 micrometer). 3 3H-transmitter overflow evoked by electrical stimulation was not modified by tolazoline or metanephrine in concentrations in which these drugs stimulated the postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors. 4 Since tolazoline and metanephrine failed to activate the presynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors of the cat nictitating membrane under experimental conditions in which they stimulated the postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors, these results further support the view that the presynaptic (alpha2) adrenoceptors differ from the postsynaptic (alpha1) adrenoceptors.
Illumination of NADH and NADPH by UV-light in the absence of oxygen resulted in the reduction of ferredoxin or methyl-viologen to cation-radical and under prolonged illumination to dihydrodipyridyl. The reaction may by accompanied by triplet and singlet exitation of NADH. It was shown that hematoporphyrin in aqueous solution photosensitized the reaction of NADH oxidation by ferredoxin and methylviologen to the visible region of the spectrum. Under light excitation the redox potentials of NADH and NADPH were increased up to the level exceeding the potential of hydrogen electrode. Illumination of NADH and NADPH by UV-light in the presence of bacterial hydrogenase resulted in hydrogen evolution. The reaction of hydrogen evolution could be sensitised towards the visible region of the spectrum by chlorophyll or chloroplasts.
The neutralization of acid introduced into the duodenum has been found to be less intensive in patients with duodenal ulcer than in controls. The present work studied the possibility that chronic gastric hypersecretion injures the duodenal mucosa and thereby influences the neutralization system. Gastric hypersecretion was provoked for 3 weeks in 3 dogs by a daily injection of a gastrin preparation with prolonged effect. After a subcutaneous injection of this preparation given together with a test meal the acidity of both gastric and duodenal contents was found to increase significantly. After the 3 weeks of gastric hypersecretion the pancreatic bicarbonate response to exogenous secretin was unchanged, while the bicarbonate response to duodenal acidification was decreased from 2.03 mEq/30 min to 1.27 mEq/30 min (p less than 0.05), compatible with an impaired secretin release. Also the concentration of lactase, maltase, sucrase, and alkaline phosphatase in mucosal biopsies from the second part of the duodenum was significantly reduced (p less than 0.001). These results indicate that gastric hypersecretion causes mucosal damage in the duodenum and thereby reduces the release of secretin.
Subfertility was evaluated in 425 men. Varicocele were diagnosed in 37.4 per cent of these patients and surgical correction of the varicocele in 68 men resulted in a 65 per cent improvement in semen quality. Idiopathic abnormalities were found in 25.4 per cent of the patients. Since the study group was heterogenous setereotyped or empirical treatment cannot hope to be successful if uniformly applied. Other specific causes of male subfertility are identified and therapeutic options are discussed.
A group of 31 patients with idiopathic proctitis were colonoscoped while they were symptomatic. Multiple mucosal biopsies were taken from the transverse, descending, and sigmoid colon and from the rectum. While visualization by colonoscopy revealed abnormalities limited to the most distal 18-20 cm of the colon, microscopic abnormalities were frequently seen in more proximal locations. Analysis of clinicopathological data indicates that there is good correlation between the extent of microscopic mucosal abnormalities and the clinical course. Patients with abnormalities limited to the rectum generally responded well to conventional treatment while patients with more proximal involvement were refractory to such therapy.
Indirect calorimetry measurements showed that brown fat thermogenesis was very sensitive to modifications of intra-cellular pH induced by extracellular acid-base perturbations. Specific blockage of active Na-K transport by ouabain inhibited the thermogenic response only in acidosis and more efficiently when the glycoside was administered before the catecholamine stimulus than when it was added after the full calorigenic response had developed. It is suggested that the catecholamine stimulus might initiate a positive feed-back alkalinization of the cytoplasm, concomitant with activation of Na-K transport.
A method is described for extraction of cimetidine, a histamine H2-receptor antagonist, from whole blood and urine with subsequent analysis by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). The drug is extracted from biological fluids with 1-octanol and back-extracted into dilute acid and then into a small volume of ethanol by saturation with potassium carbonate. HPLC analysis is performed on a column of 5-micrometer silica with a mixed mobile phase consisting primarily of acetonitrile. The method measures concentrations of cimetidine as low as 0.05 microgram/ml and is reproducible. Blood levels and urinary excretion data obtained with the analytical procedure are given for a group of human subjects who received 200-mg oral doses of cimetidine.
In contrast to the accepted view of ovarian quiescence during pregnancy, the ovaries of preparturient women are covered with a dense population of small superficial follicles. In this study we have measured the follicular size and status of the oocytes and cumulus oophorus in 298 follicles from the ovaries of 30 women. The samples were taken at cesarean section and were examined with Nomarski differential interference microscopy. No oocyte was recovered from 50% of the follicles; 79% of the recovered oocytes and 78% of their cumuli were degenerative. Degeneration was correlated with appearance of phagocytes in the follicular fluid. These findings suggest that the endocrine status of gestation does not prevent early follicular development, but induces premature atresia.
1. The effect of pH on the hydrolysis of chylomicron and chylomicron remnant cholesterol ester with rat liver homogenate was examined. The hydrolysis had three pH optima, at pH 4.5, at pH 6.0-6.5 and at pH 8.5. At the two upper pH optima extensive cholesterol ester hydrolysis occurred without simultaneous degradation of the triacylglycerol portion. 2. Similarly, microsomes (at pH 6.5-8.0) and 100 000 X g supernatant (at pH 7.5-8.5) efficiently hydrolyzed the cholesterol ester but not the triacylglycerol of chylomicron remnants. 3. With the same substrate no enrichment of neutral cholesterol esterase activity was seen in isolated plasma membranes. 4. At pH 4.5 lysosomes efficiently hydrolyzed both the cholesterol ester and the triacylglycerol portion of chylomicron remnants. 5. Three conclusions are drawn: (a) the study provides evidence against the existence of a plasma membrane-bound enzyme-hydrolyzing chylomicron cholesterol ester before or during its penetration into the cell; (b) enzymes of the cell sap and possibly of the endoplasmic reticulum can degrade cholesterol ester of chylomicron remnants without preceeding hydrolysis of the triacylglycerol core; and (c) lysosomal enzymes can degrade both the cholesterol ester and the triacylglycerol portion of chylomicron remnants if these are taken up as whole particles by endocytosis.
Complex formation between salicylic acid and adenosine or adenosine triphosphate in 0.2m phosphate buffer at pH=7 was investigated as a potential factor contributing to the prolongation of acetylsalicylic acid-induced GI blood loss. Spectrophotemetric techniques were used to evalute the complexation. Concerntration dependency of the absorbance decrease was measured at 27 and 37 degrees C. The addition of salicylic acid to either adenosine or adenosine triphosplate solutions appeared also to cause a decrease in surface tension which may play a role in reducing platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate. The results obtained seem to support the opinion that the mechansim of acetylsalicylic acid-induced GI blood loss is due to a combination of both local and systemic effect.
A number of protein modification activities are present in the protein-synthesizing complex isolated from rabbit reticulocytes. These enzymes are solubilized by sedimentation of the ribosomes through buffered sucrose containing 0.5 M KCl, and have been partially purified from the high salt wash fraction by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose and phosphocellulose. The ribosomal-associated enzymatic activities include cyclic AMP-regulated and cyclic nucloetide-independent protein kinase, phosphoprotein phosphatase, and acetyltransferase activities. These enzymatic activities have been shown to modify specific ribosomal and ribosomal-associated proteins. The cycli c AMP-regulated protein kinase phosphorylate the 40 S ribosomal subunit from rabbit reticulocytes. One of the cyclic nucleotide-independent protein kinase catalyzes the phosphorylation of two different factors involved in the initiation of hemoglobin synthesis. A single phosphoprotein phosphatase activity is shown to remove phosphate from 40 S ribosomal subunits. The major acetyltransferase activity associated with ribosomes acetylates a 60 S ribosomal protein.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and tick-borne encephalitis virus (TEV) were inoculated in young and old chick embryo cell (CEC) and in L-cell cultures at various multiplicities per cell, simultaneously or 17 hr apart. The yield of infective LCMV was inhibited in double infection, most in old CEC with elevated interferon mechanisms, and least in L cells producing no interferon. In young CEC, TEV-induced interferon was stimulated by coinfecting LCMV; LCMV alone never has induced interferon. The reproduction of TEV was little affected. In doubly infected L cells the fluorescent antibody techniques revealed more cells positive for each viral antigen than in single infections, but the yield of LCMV per one antigen-positive cell was decreased. The course of TEV infection in cerebrally infected mice was not changed by co-infection with LCMV. The titre of LCMV in the brains of doubly infected mice was markedly suppressed when compared with LCMV monoinfection. High interferon levels in brains of all mice infected with TEV were not affected by LCMV co-infection.
Tests for associated immunization of swine against Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) and Vesicular Disease (SVD) of swine were carried out. As a result of this investigation, it was established that the prepared and tested inactivated oil vaccine is harmless and immunogenic in sensitive animals. In investigating the course of immunity, the presence of antibody against both antigens was demonstrated in vaccinated animals. All once-vaccinated animals were defended against the virus of SVD during challenge, and 75% of them were defended against FMD. After revaccination, all immunized swine were defended against infection with both viruses. The question of the quality of the associated vaccine and the possibilities of its massive use in industrial swine rearing was discussed.
A microsomal fraction, prepared from mouse skin, catalyzed the hydroxylation of benzpyrene and aniline and the deethylation of 7-ethoxycoumarin. Contamination of the preparation by cytochrome oxidase and cytochrome P-420 was determined by spectral analysis. The enzyme activities studied in mouse skin (Swiss-Webster CD-1) did not respond to topical application of 3-MC. Twenty-four hours after topical application of TCDD to mice, microsomes from skin had 50% greater benzpyrene hydroxylase and 7-ethoxycoumarin deethylase activity, and 4- to 8-fold greater activity of these enzymes was seen after 72 hr. Increases in cytochrome P-450 content of skin microsomes could be demonstrated 24 and 72 hr after topical TCDD treatment of mice. Cholate treatment (solubilization) of skin microsomes, followed by centrifugation, removed the contaminating cytochrome oxidase. Quantitative and qualitative analyses of cytochrome P-450 difference spectra were made from the solubilized preparations.
A method is described which permits the simultaneous detection of methaqualone, phenothiazines, opiates and benzodiazepines in urine. Its diagnostic application is discussed. After cleavage of conjugates with hydrochloric acid, the substances are extracted and identified by thin-layer chromatography. In most cases analysis can be carried out using 2 solvent systems, phenothiazines, methaqualone and opiates being visualised using a three stage spray sequence. Since phenothiazines can interfere with the detection of methaqualone, a specific eluant is used to ensure reliable detection of the latter. Methaqualone can be positively identified by its characteristic metabolite pattern, whereas phenothiazines can only be detected as a group.
The AA. have studied the behaviour of 7 serological parameters in 32 subjects affected by acute viral hapatitis, by means of 4 samples of blood performes at the distance of 12 days for the first and of 15 days for the others. The results are alike to these formerly knows, exception made for alkaline phosphatase, gamma Gt and immunoglobulines G and M.
Field-collected 4th instar larvae of Culiseta annulata and Culex territans were found to be infected with mosquito iridescent virus (MIV). Ultrathin sections revealed the presence in infected cells of different types of immature virus particles of an average diameter of 180 and 190 nm respectively.
Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) level was estimated in 132 patients with different liver diseases (chronic persistent and chronic active hepatitis, postnecrotic cirrhosis, chronic alcholic hepatitis and alcoholic cirrhosis, cholestasis syndrome, fatty liver, Gilbert disease) and malignancies with and without liver involvement. The gamma-GT levels were compared with the values for serum bilirubin, transaminases (GOT, GPT) and alkaline phosphatase in the same patients. gamma-GT values were normal in chronic persistent hepatitis and increased in chronic active hepatitis. Very high activities were measured in chronic alcoholic cirrhosis in contrast to postnecrotic cirrhosis. gamma-GT proved to be more sensitive than alkaline phosphate as an index of cholestasis and liver involvement in malignancies. It is suggested that gamma-GT activity offers valuable aid in differential diagnostics of liver-diseases. gamma-GT being an inducible enzyme, its activity may be raised by enzyme inducing drugs also in subjects without liver disease.
In the long-term ovariectomized rat the secretion of LH has a pulsatile character. In such rats no difference was observed between morning and afternoon LH secretion. The administration of phenoxybenzamine, an chi-adrenergic blocker, resulted in depressed plasma LH levels. chi-Methyl-tyrosine (chi-MT), an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase had no effect on plasma LH levels, whereas bis(4methyl-1-homopiperazinil-thiocarbonil) disulphide (FLA 63), an inhibitor of dopaminic-beta-hydroxylase, induced decreased plasma LH levels and disappearance of the pulsations. The same effect was observed after the administration of apomorphine, a dopaminic receptor stimulating drug, whereas the administration of 1-hydroxy-3-amino-pyrrolidone-2 (HA-966), which blocks dopamine release, significantly raised plasma LH levels. Scopolamine, a cholinergic muscarinic receptor blocking drug, had no effect on plasma LH levels, whereas mecamylamine, a cholinergic nicotine receptor blocking agent, decreased them. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the pulsatile release of LH in the long-term ovariectomized rat is caused by the stimulating activity of adrenergic and cholinergic, probably nicotinic, systems and the inhibitory activity of a dopaminergic system.
The glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2) from the N2-fixing bacterium Azotobacter vinelandii was purified to homogeneity by heat treatment, ammonium sulfate precipitation and ion-exchange chromatography. The following molecular parameters were determined: molecular weight 640 000, subunit molecular weight 53 000, partial specific volume 0.710 cm3/g, isoelectric point 4.6, amino acid composition. Most of the molecules are composed of 12 identical subunits but active oligomers of other degrees of polymerization, apparently aggregates with 8, 10 and 24 subunits, were also detected to a lesser extent. The enzymatic activity is regulated via adenylylation-deadenylylation cycles: liberation of AMP was detected upon treatment of the adenylylated form with phosphodiesterase along with a change in the catalytic properties. Adenylylation in vivo is specifically induced by high extracellular ammonia levels. The Km values for the Mg2+-dependent formation of glutamine were independent of the degree of adenylylation for glutamate and ATP, but varied for ammonia. Furthermore the catalytic activity is regulated by several nitrogenous feedback inhibitors. The degree of inhibition in some cases was dependent on the substrate concentrations: the sensitivity towards glycine, alanine and serine decreased with a decreasing ammonia level, while the sensitivity towards ADP or AMP increased with a decreasing ATP concentration. Part of the enzyme (about 30%) seems to be attached to the plasma membrane while the main fraction is found in the cytosol.
Application of an ethylene glycol lysis technique to extract water-soluble, low molecular weight polypeptides in Aplysia neurons, was used in conjunction with microgradient gel electrophoresis and micro-isoelectric focusing, to identify unique polypeptides in specific, identified neurons. The polypeptides found in neurons R15, R3-13, R14, and the bag cells were particularly abundant, consistent with the previously suggested neurosecretory role for these cells. Water extraction of the strongly basic polypeptides (pI 10.7) in R3-13 and R14 required an acidic lysis medium.
A number of new esters of fluphenazine are described: among these was the 1-adamantoate, 1h, the first highly crystalline ester of that drug. The 1-adamantoate of pipotiazine, 2b, typically, was an oil. Following a single subcutaneous or intramuscular injection of 25 mg/kg of either 1h or 2b, dissolved in sesame oil, each ester was found to be a potent and long-acting inhibitor of conditioned avoidance behavior in the rat.
Blood specimens for measurement of leukocyte cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) were obtained at weekly intervals from asthmatic children who were participating in a double-blind, crossover study to compare the effects of two adrenergic agents and a placebo. When patients were treated with the placebo, the basal measurements and the cyclic AMP responses of leukocytes to in vitro stimulation with epinephrine (10(-4) M) were similar to those of normal subjects but within one week after initiation of treatment with an adrenergic bronchodilator, leukocyte cyclic AMP responses to adrenergic stimulation in vitro decreased and remained low during the remainder of the treatment period. Within one week after discontinuation of adrenergic therapy, leukocyte cyclic AMP responses returned to the control level. Our results indicate that the alterations in leukocyte cyclic AMP metabolism which have been observed previously in asthmatic patients may result from medications used for treatment of asthma.
Bud1XXP 820_pa @ @ @ @?10002_parsed.txtIlocblobH10013_parsed.txtIlocblobH10024_parsed.txtIlocblobaH10029_parsed.txtIlocblobH10035_parsed.txtIlocblob=H10038_parsed.txtIlocblobH10057_parsed.txtIlocblob;10060_parsed.txtIlocblob10071_parsed.txtIlocblob10092_parsed.txtIlocblob10116_parsed.txtIlocblob10121_parsed.txtIlocbloba10143_parsed.txtIlocblob10152_parsed.txtIlocblob=10165_parsed.txtIlocblob10168_parsed.txtIlocblob;(10174_parsed.txtIlocblob(10179_parsed.txtIlocblob(10227_parsed.txtIlocblob(10236_parsed.txtIlocblob(10245_parsed.txtIlocbloba(10259_parsed.txtIlocblob(10263_parsed.txtIlocblob=(10291_parsed.txtIlocblob(10304_parsed.txtIlocblob;10309_parsed.txtIlocblob10315_parsed.txtIlocblob10318_parsed.txtIlocblob10333_parsed.txtIlocblob10351_parsed.txtIlocbloba10366_parsed.txtIlocblob10388_parsed.txtIlocblob=10409_parsed.txtIlocblob10415_parsed.txtIlocblob;10418_parsed.txtIlocblob10422_parsed.txtIlocblob10433_parsed.txtIlocblob10451_parsed.txtIlocblob10466_parsed.txtIlocbloba10477_parsed.txtIlocblob10485_parsed.txtIlocblob=10527_parsed.txtIlocblob10545_parsed.txtIlocblob;x10572_parsed.txtIlocblobx10591_parsed.txtIlocblobx10607_parsed.txtIlocblobx10616_parsed.txtIlocblobx10621_parsed.txtIlocblobax10630_parsed.txtIlocblobx10643_parsed.txtIlocblob=x10665_parsed.txtIlocblobx10686_parsed.txtIlocblob;10697_parsed.txtIlocblob10702_parsed.txtIlocblob10724_parsed.txtIlocblob10729_parsed.txtIlocblob10735_parsed.txtIlocbloba10738_parsed.txtIlocblob10746_parsed.txtIlocblob=10757_parsed.txtIlocblob10783_parsed.txtIlocblob;X10792_parsed.txtIlocblobX10817_parsed.txtIlocblobX?10831_parsed.txtIlocblobX10842_parsed.txtIlocblobaX10864_parsed.txtIlocblobX10869_parsed.txtIlocblob=X10875_parsed.txtIlocblobX10887_parsed.txtIlocblob;10956_parsed.txtIlocblob10961_parsed.txtIlocblob10970_parsed.txtIlocblob10982_parsed.txtIlocblob10993_parsed.txtIlocbloba11001_parsed.txtIlocblob11010_parsed.txtIlocblob=11027_parsed.txtIlocblob11080_parsed.txtIlocblob;811091_parsed.txtIlocblob811104_parsed.txtIlocblob811109_parsed.txtIlocblob811118_parsed.txtIlocblob811122_parsed.txtIlocbloba811140_parsed.txtIlocblob811151_parsed.txtIlocblob=811166_parsed.txtIlocblob811177_parsed.txtIlocblob;11194_parsed.txtIlocblob11199_parsed.txtIlocblob11213_parsed.txtIlocblob11224_parsed.txtIlocblob11260_parsed.txtIlocbloba11271_parsed.txtIlocblob11292_parsed.txtIlocblob=11307_parsed.txtIlocblob11330_parsed.txtIlocblob; 11343_parsed.txtIlocblob 11352_parsed.txtIlocblob 11368_parsed.txtIlocblob 11374_parsed.txtIlocblob 11416_parsed.txtIlocbloba 11421_parsed.txtIlocblob 11443_parsed.txtIlocblob= 11465_parsed.txtIlocblob 11513_parsed.txtIlocblob; 11529_parsed.txtIlocblob 11546_parsed.txtIlocblob 11557_parsed.txtIlocblob 11560_parsed.txtIlocblob 11571_parsed.txtIlocbloba 11615_parsed.txtIlocblob 11622_parsed.txtIlocblob= 11633_parsed.txtIlocblob 11666_parsed.txtIlocblob; 11685_parsed.txtIlocblob 11694_parsed.txtIlocblob 11699_parsed.txtIlocblob 11727_parsed.txtIlocblob 11736_parsed.txtIlocbloba 11745_parsed.txtIlocblob 11754_parsed.txtIlocblob= 11759_parsed.txtIlocblob 11763_parsed.txtIlocblob;!h11772_parsed.txtIlocblob!h11780_parsed.txtIlocblob!h11808_parsed.txtIlocblob!h?11832_parsed.txtIlocbloba!h11841_parsed.txtIlocblob!h11850_parsed.txtIlocblob=!h11867_parsed.txtIlocblob!h11876_parsed.txtIlocblob;!11884_parsed.txtIlocblob!11889_parsed.txtIlocblob!11895_parsed.txtIlocblob!11898_parsed.txtIlocblob!11900_parsed.txtIlocbloba!11911_parsed.txtIlocblob!11973_parsed.txtIlocblob=!11990_parsed.txtIlocblob!12077_parsed.txtIlocblob;"H12085_parsed.txtIlocblob"H12136_parsed.txtIlocblob"H12148_parsed.txtIlocblob"H12154_parsed.txtIlocblob"H12159_parsed.txtIlocbloba"H12163_parsed.txtIlocblob"H12180_parsed.txtIlocblob="H12191_parsed.txtIlocblob"H12243_parsed.txtIlocblob;"12265_parsed.txtIlocblob"12268_parsed.txtIlocblob"12383_parsed.txtIlocblob"12392_parsed.txtIlocblob"12413_parsed.txtIlocbloba"12424_parsed.txtIlocblob"12457_parsed.txtIlocblob="12483_parsed.txtIlocblob"12492_parsed.txtIlocblob;#(12507_parsed.txtIlocblob#(12521_parsed.txtIlocblob#(12530_parsed.txtIlocblob#(12543_parsed.txtIlocblob#(12552_parsed.txtIlocbloba#(12565_parsed.txtIlocblob#(12601_parsed.txtIlocblob=#(12636_parsed.txtIlocblob#(12648_parsed.txtIlocblob;#12659_parsed.txtIlocblob#12663_parsed.txtIlocblob#12691_parsed.txtIlocblob#12715_parsed.txtIlocblob#12718_parsed.txtIlocbloba#12722_parsed.txtIlocblob#12740_parsed.txtIlocblob=#12785_parsed.txtIlocblob#12788_parsed.txtIlocblob;$12794_parsed.txtIlocblob$12799_parsed.txtIlocblob$12800_parsed.txtIlocblob$12811_parsed.txtIlocblob$12826_parsed.txtIlocbloba$12837_parsed.txtIlocblob$12849_parsed.txtIlocblob=$12862_parsed.txtIlocblob$12914_parsed.txtIlocblob;$x12923_parsed.txtIlocblob$x12932_parsed.txtIlocblob$x12941_parsed.txtIlocblob$x12950_parsed.txtIlocblob$x?12976_parsed.txtIlocblob$x12984_parsed.txtIlocblob=$x12989_parsed.txtIlocblob$x13016_parsed.txtIlocblob;$13068_parsed.txtIlocblob$13074_parsed.txtIlocblob$13079_parsed.txtIlocblob$13086_parsed.txtIlocblob$13129_parsed.txtIlocbloba$13135_parsed.txtIlocblob$13138_parsed.txtIlocblob=$13160_parsed.txtIlocblob$13204_parsed.txtIlocblob;%X13215_parsed.txtIlocblob%X13218_parsed.txtIlocblob%X13222_parsed.txtIlocblob%X13240_parsed.txtIlocblob%X13310_parsed.txtIlocbloba%X13327_parsed.txtIlocblob%X13336_parsed.txtIlocblob=%X13345_parsed.txtIlocblob%X13348_parsed.txtIlocblob;%13354_parsed.txtIlocblob%13363_parsed.txtIlocblob%13372_parsed.txtIlocblob%13410_parsed.txtIlocblob%13427_parsed.txtIlocbloba%13436_parsed.txtIlocblob%13445_parsed.txtIlocblob=%13448_parsed.txtIlocblob%13472_parsed.txtIlocblob;&813480_parsed.txtIlocblob&813491_parsed.txtIlocblob&813504_parsed.txtIlocblob&813588_parsed.txtIlocblob&813594_parsed.txtIlocbloba&813599_parsed.txtIlocblob&813602_parsed.txtIlocblob=&813638_parsed.txtIlocblob&813657_parsed.txtIlocblob;&13660_parsed.txtIlocblob&13683_parsed.txtIlocblob&13692_parsed.txtIlocblob&13743_parsed.txtIlocblob&13768_parsed.txtIlocbloba&13774_parsed.txtIlocblob&13786_parsed.txtIlocblob=&13803_parsed.txtIlocblob&13812_parsed.txtIlocblob;'13825_parsed.txtIlocblob'13828_parsed.txtIlocblob'13834_parsed.txtIlocblob'13839_parsed.txtIlocblob'13847_parsed.txtIlocbloba'13856_parsed.txtIlocblob'13861_parsed.txtIlocblob='13870_parsed.txtIlocblob'13893_parsed.txtIlocblob;'13906_parsed.txtIlocblob'13917_parsed.txtIlocblob'13920_parsed.txtIlocblob'13931_parsed.txtIlocblob'13942_parsed.txtIlocbloba'?13964_parsed.txtIlocblob='13969_parsed.txtIlocblob'13975_parsed.txtIlocblob;'13978_parsed.txtIlocblob'14002_parsed.txtIlocblob'14035_parsed.txtIlocblob'14038_parsed.txtIlocblob'14046_parsed.txtIlocbloba'14057_parsed.txtIlocblob'14060_parsed.txtIlocblob='14071_parsed.txtIlocblob'14107_parsed.txtIlocblob;(h14116_parsed.txtIlocblob(h14121_parsed.txtIlocblob(h14130_parsed.txtIlocblob(h14143_parsed.txtIlocblob(h14152_parsed.txtIlocbloba(h14165_parsed.txtIlocblob(h14168_parsed.txtIlocblob=(h14174_parsed.txtIlocblob(h14210_parsed.txtIlocblob;(14227_parsed.txtIlocblob(14245_parsed.txtIlocblob(14248_parsed.txtIlocblob(14259_parsed.txtIlocblob(14304_parsed.txtIlocbloba(14309_parsed.txtIlocblob(14340_parsed.txtIlocblob=(14351_parsed.txtIlocblob(14366_parsed.txtIlocblob;)H14394_parsed.txtIlocblob)H14399_parsed.txtIlocblob)H14415_parsed.txtIlocblob)H14422_parsed.txtIlocblob)H14466_parsed.txtIlocbloba)H14477_parsed.txtIlocblob)H14485_parsed.txtIlocblob=)H14494_parsed.txtIlocblob)H14499_parsed.txtIlocblob;)14501_parsed.txtIlocblob)14510_parsed.txtIlocblob)14527_parsed.txtIlocblob)14536_parsed.txtIlocblob)14545_parsed.txtIlocbloba)14548_parsed.txtIlocblob)14563_parsed.txtIlocblob=)14572_parsed.txtIlocblob)14607_parsed.txtIlocblob;*(14616_parsed.txtIlocblob*(14630_parsed.txtIlocblob*(14652_parsed.txtIlocblob*(14665_parsed.txtIlocblob*(14668_parsed.txtIlocbloba*(14674_parsed.txtIlocblob*(14679_parsed.txtIlocblob=*(14686_parsed.txtIlocblob*(14702_parsed.txtIlocblob;*14713_parsed.txtIlocblob*14724_parsed.txtIlocblob*14729_parsed.txtIlocblob*14735_parsed.txtIlocblob*14738_parsed.txtIlocbloba*14746_parsed.txtIlocblob*?14771_parsed.txtIlocblob*14792_parsed.txtIlocblob;+14820_parsed.txtIlocblob+14875_parsed.txtIlocblob+14896_parsed.txtIlocblob+14928_parsed.txtIlocblob+14934_parsed.txtIlocbloba+14939_parsed.txtIlocblob+14956_parsed.txtIlocblob=+14961_parsed.txtIlocblob+14982_parsed.txtIlocblob;+x15036_parsed.txtIlocblob+x15048_parsed.txtIlocblob+x15072_parsed.txtIlocblob+x15104_parsed.txtIlocblob+x15109_parsed.txtIlocbloba+x15115_parsed.txtIlocblob+x15133_parsed.txtIlocblob=+x15177_parsed.txtIlocblob+x15213_parsed.txtIlocblob;+15257_parsed.txtIlocblob+15260_parsed.txtIlocblob+15307_parsed.txtIlocblob+15352_parsed.txtIlocblob+15368_parsed.txtIlocbloba+15407_parsed.txtIlocblob+15421_parsed.txtIlocblob=+15443_parsed.txtIlocblob+15452_parsed.txtIlocblob;,X15465_parsed.txtIlocblob,X15474_parsed.txtIlocblob,X15479_parsed.txtIlocblob,X15486_parsed.txtIlocblob,X15497_parsed.txtIlocbloba,X15502_parsed.txtIlocblob,X15524_parsed.txtIlocblob=,X15529_parsed.txtIlocblob,X15535_parsed.txtIlocblob;,15538_parsed.txtIlocblob,15546_parsed.txtIlocblob,15557_parsed.txtIlocblob,15560_parsed.txtIlocblob,15571_parsed.txtIlocbloba,15583_parsed.txtIlocblob,15592_parsed.txtIlocblob=,15604_parsed.txtIlocblob,15609_parsed.txtIlocblob;-815615_parsed.txtIlocblob-815618_parsed.txtIlocblob-815622_parsed.txtIlocblob-815633_parsed.txtIlocblob-815640_parsed.txtIlocbloba-815651_parsed.txtIlocblob-815677_parsed.txtIlocblob=-815685_parsed.txtIlocblob-815688_parsed.txtIlocblob;-15699_parsed.txtIlocblob-15710_parsed.txtIlocblob-15727_parsed.txtIlocblob-15736_parsed.txtIlocblob-15745_parsed.txtIlocbloba-15748_parsed.txtIlocblob-15754_parsed.txtIlocblob=-?15763_parsed.txtIlocblob;.15808_parsed.txtIlocblob.15814_parsed.txtIlocblob.15823_parsed.txtIlocblob.15841_parsed.txtIlocblob.15884_parsed.txtIlocbloba.15889_parsed.txtIlocblob.15895_parsed.txtIlocblob=.15898_parsed.txtIlocblob.15900_parsed.txtIlocblob;.15937_parsed.txtIlocblob.15949_parsed.txtIlocblob.15955_parsed.txtIlocblob.15981_parsed.txtIlocblob.15990_parsed.txtIlocbloba.16004_parsed.txtIlocblob.16009_parsed.txtIlocblob=.16015_parsed.txtIlocblob.16033_parsed.txtIlocblob;.16040_parsed.txtIlocblob.16099_parsed.txtIlocblob.16101_parsed.txtIlocblob.16136_parsed.txtIlocblob.16145_parsed.txtIlocbloba.16154_parsed.txtIlocblob.16172_parsed.txtIlocblob=.16180_parsed.txtIlocblob.16191_parsed.txtIlocblob;/h16279_parsed.txtIlocblob/h16286_parsed.txtIlocblob/h16297_parsed.txtIlocblob/h16392_parsed.txtIlocblob/h16402_parsed.txtIlocbloba/h16429_parsed.txtIlocblob/h16438_parsed.txtIlocblob=/h16483_parsed.txtIlocblob/h16492_parsed.txtIlocblob;/16521_parsed.txtIlocblob/16543_parsed.txtIlocblob/16574_parsed.txtIlocblob/16579_parsed.txtIlocblob/16672_parsed.txtIlocbloba/16691_parsed.txtIlocblob/16704_parsed.txtIlocblob=/16733_parsed.txtIlocblob/16740_parsed.txtIlocblob;0H16751_parsed.txtIlocblob0H16794_parsed.txtIlocblob0H16799_parsed.txtIlocblob0H16800_parsed.txtIlocblob0H16862_parsed.txtIlocbloba0H16873_parsed.txtIlocblob0H16881_parsed.txtIlocblob=0H16908_parsed.txtIlocblob0H16914_parsed.txtIlocblob;016919_parsed.txtIlocblob016976_parsed.txtIlocblob016995_parsed.txtIlocblob016998_parsed.txtIlocblob017007_parsed.txtIlocbloba017021_parsed.txtIlocblob017065_parsed.txtIlocblob=017086_parsed.txtIlocblob0?17102_parsed.txtIlocblob1(17113_parsed.txtIlocblob1(17157_parsed.txtIlocblob1(17160_parsed.txtIlocblob1(17183_parsed.txtIlocbloba1(17192_parsed.txtIlocblob1(17209_parsed.txtIlocblob=1(17222_parsed.txtIlocblob1(17277_parsed.txtIlocblob;117285_parsed.txtIlocblob117288_parsed.txtIlocblob117294_parsed.txtIlocblob117299_parsed.txtIlocblob117301_parsed.txtIlocbloba117348_parsed.txtIlocblob117380_parsed.txtIlocblob=117391_parsed.txtIlocblob117401_parsed.txtIlocblob;217436_parsed.txtIlocblob217459_parsed.txtIlocblob217463_parsed.txtIlocblob217480_parsed.txtIlocblob217491_parsed.txtIlocbloba217585_parsed.txtIlocblob217594_parsed.txtIlocblob=217692_parsed.txtIlocblob217716_parsed.txtIlocblob;2x17721_parsed.txtIlocblob2x17743_parsed.txtIlocblob2x17752_parsed.txtIlocblob2x17774_parsed.txtIlocblob2x17917_parsed.txtIlocbloba2x17920_parsed.txtIlocblob2x17942_parsed.txtIlocblob=2x17964_parsed.txtIlocblob2x17987_parsed.txtIlocblob;217996_parsed.txtIlocblob218003_parsed.txtIlocblob218025_parsed.txtIlocblob218028_parsed.txtIlocblob218034_parsed.txtIlocbloba218039_parsed.txtIlocblob218070_parsed.txtIlocblob=218082_parsed.txtIlocblob218117_parsed.txtIlocblob;3X18142_parsed.txtIlocblob3X18169_parsed.txtIlocblob3X18175_parsed.txtIlocblob3X18196_parsed.txtIlocblob3X18200_parsed.txtIlocbloba3X18211_parsed.txtIlocblob3X18226_parsed.txtIlocblob=3X18237_parsed.txtIlocblob3X18244_parsed.txtIlocblob;318249_parsed.txtIlocblob318305_parsed.txtIlocblob318319_parsed.txtIlocblob318332_parsed.txtIlocblob318341_parsed.txtIlocbloba318367_parsed.txtIlocblob318376_parsed.txtIlocblob=318384_parsed.txtIlocblob318389_parsed.txtIlocblob;48?18405_parsed.txtIlocblob4818408_parsed.txtIlocblob4818414_parsed.txtIlocblob4818423_parsed.txtIlocbloba4818441_parsed.txtIlocblob4818450_parsed.txtIlocblob=4818467_parsed.txtIlocblob4818484_parsed.txtIlocblob;418489_parsed.txtIlocblob418549_parsed.txtIlocblob418573_parsed.txtIlocblob418606_parsed.txtIlocblob418620_parsed.txtIlocbloba418631_parsed.txtIlocblob418653_parsed.txtIlocblob=418664_parsed.txtIlocblob418669_parsed.txtIlocblob;518703_parsed.txtIlocblob518728_parsed.txtIlocblob518734_parsed.txtIlocblob518793_parsed.txtIlocblob518807_parsed.txtIlocbloba518821_parsed.txtIlocblob518830_parsed.txtIlocblob=518843_parsed.txtIlocblob518924_parsed.txtIlocblob;518957_parsed.txtIlocblob518971_parsed.txtIlocblob518983_parsed.txtIlocblob519000_parsed.txtIlocblob519011_parsed.txtIlocbloba519044_parsed.txtIlocblob519055_parsed.txtIlocblob=519081_parsed.txtIlocblob519105_parsed.txtIlocblob;519114_parsed.txtIlocblob519119_parsed.txtIlocblob519132_parsed.txtIlocblob519150_parsed.txtIlocblob519167_parsed.txtIlocbloba519176_parsed.txtIlocblob519184_parsed.txtIlocblob=519189_parsed.txtIlocblob519203_parsed.txtIlocblob;6h19212_parsed.txtIlocblob6h19228_parsed.txtIlocblob6h19247_parsed.txtIlocblob6h19261_parsed.txtIlocblob6h19331_parsed.txtIlocbloba6h19364_parsed.txtIlocblob6h19369_parsed.txtIlocblob=6h19375_parsed.txtIlocblob6h19417_parsed.txtIlocblob;619420_parsed.txtIlocblob619431_parsed.txtIlocblob619442_parsed.txtIlocblob619453_parsed.txtIlocblob619464_parsed.txtIlocbloba619475_parsed.txtIlocblob619503_parsed.txtIlocblob=619539_parsed.txtIlocblob619547_parsed.txtIlocblob;7H19556_parsed.txtIlocblob7H?19614_parsed.txtIlocblob7H19684_parsed.txtIlocblob7H19698_parsed.txtIlocbloba7H19726_parsed.txtIlocblob7H19737_parsed.txtIlocblob=7H19804_parsed.txtIlocblob7H19822_parsed.txtIlocblob;719833_parsed.txtIlocblob719866_parsed.txtIlocblob719885_parsed.txtIlocblob719888_parsed.txtIlocblob719901_parsed.txtIlocbloba719927_parsed.txtIlocblob719945_parsed.txtIlocblob=719954_parsed.txtIlocblob720011_parsed.txtIlocblob;8(20026_parsed.txtIlocblob8(20044_parsed.txtIlocblob8(20150_parsed.txtIlocblob8(20167_parsed.txtIlocblob8(20184_parsed.txtIlocbloba8(20195_parsed.txtIlocblob8(20198_parsed.txtIlocblob=8(20212_parsed.txtIlocblob8(20239_parsed.txtIlocblob;820247_parsed.txtIlocblob820256_parsed.txtIlocblob820261_parsed.txtIlocblob820293_parsed.txtIlocblob820320_parsed.txtIlocbloba820331_parsed.txtIlocblob820342_parsed.txtIlocblob=820353_parsed.txtIlocblob820387_parsed.txtIlocblob;920396_parsed.txtIlocblob920406_parsed.txtIlocblob920417_parsed.txtIlocblob920453_parsed.txtIlocblob920478_parsed.txtIlocbloba920487_parsed.txtIlocblob920503_parsed.txtIlocblob=920556_parsed.txtIlocblob920561_parsed.txtIlocblob;9x20570_parsed.txtIlocblob9x20582_parsed.txtIlocblob9x20608_parsed.txtIlocblob9x20619_parsed.txtIlocblob9x20632_parsed.txtIlocbloba9x20667_parsed.txtIlocblob9x20684_parsed.txtIlocblob=9x20744_parsed.txtIlocblob9x20749_parsed.txtIlocblob;920758_parsed.txtIlocblob920773_parsed.txtIlocblob920781_parsed.txtIlocblob920790_parsed.txtIlocblob920804_parsed.txtIlocbloba920840_parsed.txtIlocblob920866_parsed.txtIlocblob=920899_parsed.txtIlocblob920927_parsed.txtIlocblob;:X20948_parsed.txtIlocblob:X20959_parsed.txtIlocblob:XA9096_parsed.txtIlocblob89112_parsed.txtIlocblob89125_parsed.txtIlocblob89128_parsed.txtIlocblob89134_parsed.txtIlocbloba89139_parsed.txtIlocblob89147_parsed.txtIlocblob=89156_parsed.txtIlocblob89170_parsed.txtIlocblob;9182_parsed.txtIlocblob9193_parsed.txtIlocblob9208_parsed.txtIlocblob9214_parsed.txtIlocblob9219_parsed.txtIlocbloba9276_parsed.txtIlocblob9284_parsed.txtIlocblob=9289_parsed.txtIlocblob9298_parsed.txtIlocblob;9300_parsed.txtIlocblob9311_parsed.txtIlocblob9344_parsed.txtIlocblob9349_parsed.txtIlocblob9362_parsed.txtIlocbloba9373_parsed.txtIlocblob9390_parsed.txtIlocblob=9400_parsed.txtIlocblob9411_parsed.txtIlocblob;9426_parsed.txtIlocblob9437_parsed.txtIlocblob9455_parsed.txtIlocblob9462_parsed.txtIlocblob9505_parsed.txtIlocbloba9514_parsed.txtIlocblob9519_parsed.txtIlocblob=9523_parsed.txtIlocblob9584_parsed.txtIlocblob;9598_parsed.txtIlocblob9628_parsed.txtIlocblob9634_parsed.txtIlocblob9639_parsed.txtIlocblob9656_parsed.txtIlocbloba9682_parsed.txtIlocblob9742_parsed.txtIlocblob=9753_parsed.txtIlocblob9769_parsed.txtIlocblob;h9775_parsed.txtIlocblobh9778_parsed.txtIlocblobh9796_parsed.txtIlocblobh9802_parsed.txtIlocblobh9824_parsed.txtIlocblobah9829_parsed.txtIlocblobh9835_parsed.txtIlocblob=h9846_parsed.txtIlocblobh9860_parsed.txtIlocblob;9871_parsed.txtIlocblob9883_parsed.txtIlocblob9916_parsed.txtIlocblob9921_parsed.txtIlocblob9930_parsed.txtIlocbloba9952_parsed.txtIlocblob9965_parsed.txtIlocblob=9968_parsed.txtIlocblob9974_parsed.txtIlocblob;H9986_parsed.txtIlocblobH9997_parsed.txtIlocblobH?20980_parsed.txtIlocblob:X21028_parsed.txtIlocbloba:X21039_parsed.txtIlocblob:X21047_parsed.txtIlocblob=:X21070_parsed.txtIlocblob:X21093_parsed.txtIlocblob;:21106_parsed.txtIlocblob:21131_parsed.txtIlocblob:21164_parsed.txtIlocblob:21178_parsed.txtIlocblob:21196_parsed.txtIlocbloba:21200_parsed.txtIlocblob:21226_parsed.txtIlocblob=:21237_parsed.txtIlocblob:21255_parsed.txtIlocblob;;821258_parsed.txtIlocblob;821281_parsed.txtIlocblob;821290_parsed.txtIlocblob;821305_parsed.txtIlocblob;821319_parsed.txtIlocbloba;821323_parsed.txtIlocblob;821384_parsed.txtIlocblob=;821467_parsed.txtIlocblob;821484_parsed.txtIlocblob;;21489_parsed.txtIlocblob;21495_parsed.txtIlocblob;21498_parsed.txtIlocblob;21500_parsed.txtIlocblob;21511_parsed.txtIlocbloba;21537_parsed.txtIlocblob;21555_parsed.txtIlocblob=;21558_parsed.txtIlocblob;21573_parsed.txtIlocblob;<21606_parsed.txtIlocblob<21653_parsed.txtIlocblob<21669_parsed.txtIlocblob<21678_parsed.txtIlocblob<21687_parsed.txtIlocbloba<21696_parsed.txtIlocblob<21728_parsed.txtIlocblob=<21739_parsed.txtIlocblob<21770_parsed.txtIlocblob;<21782_parsed.txtIlocblob<21807_parsed.txtIlocblob<21830_parsed.txtIlocblob<21843_parsed.txtIlocblob<21852_parsed.txtIlocbloba<21868_parsed.txtIlocblob<21874_parsed.txtIlocblob=<21935_parsed.txtIlocblob<21938_parsed.txtIlocblob;<21957_parsed.txtIlocblob<21983_parsed.txtIlocblob<22042_parsed.txtIlocblob<22053_parsed.txtIlocblob<22069_parsed.txtIlocbloba<22075_parsed.txtIlocblob<22078_parsed.txtIlocblob=<22087_parsed.txtIlocblob<22112_parsed.txtIlocblob;=h22128_parsed.txtIlocblob=h22139_parsed.txtIlocblob=h22208_parsed.txtIlocblob=h?22219_parsed.txtIlocbloba=h22232_parsed.txtIlocblob=h22276_parsed.txtIlocblob==h22289_parsed.txtIlocblob=h22295_parsed.txtIlocblob;=22298_parsed.txtIlocblob=22300_parsed.txtIlocblob=22311_parsed.txtIlocblob=22326_parsed.txtIlocblob=22344_parsed.txtIlocbloba=22349_parsed.txtIlocblob=22355_parsed.txtIlocblob==22358_parsed.txtIlocblob=22373_parsed.txtIlocblob;>H22381_parsed.txtIlocblob>H22411_parsed.txtIlocblob>H22426_parsed.txtIlocblob>H22437_parsed.txtIlocblob>H22444_parsed.txtIlocbloba>H22455_parsed.txtIlocblob>H22473_parsed.txtIlocblob=>H22481_parsed.txtIlocblob>H22505_parsed.txtIlocblob;>22514_parsed.txtIlocblob>22550_parsed.txtIlocblob>22576_parsed.txtIlocblob>22595_parsed.txtIlocblob>22598_parsed.txtIlocbloba>22603_parsed.txtIlocblob>22717_parsed.txtIlocblob=>22720_parsed.txtIlocblob>22731_parsed.txtIlocblob;?(22753_parsed.txtIlocblob?(22764_parsed.txtIlocblob?(22769_parsed.txtIlocblob?(22775_parsed.txtIlocblob?(22778_parsed.txtIlocbloba?(22787_parsed.txtIlocblob?(22796_parsed.txtIlocblob=?(22824_parsed.txtIlocblob?(22838_parsed.txtIlocblob;?22907_parsed.txtIlocblob?22952_parsed.txtIlocblob?22974_parsed.txtIlocblob?22979_parsed.txtIlocblob?22986_parsed.txtIlocbloba?22997_parsed.txtIlocblob?23005_parsed.txtIlocblob=?23008_parsed.txtIlocblob?23014_parsed.txtIlocblob;@23019_parsed.txtIlocblob@23023_parsed.txtIlocblob@23032_parsed.txtIlocblob@23041_parsed.txtIlocblob@23050_parsed.txtIlocbloba@23067_parsed.txtIlocblob@23084_parsed.txtIlocblob=@23100_parsed.txtIlocblob@23111_parsed.txtIlocblob;@x23144_parsed.txtIlocblob@x23158_parsed.txtIlocblob@x23162_parsed.txtIlocblob@x23173_parsed.txtIlocblob@x?23269_parsed.txtIlocblob@x23278_parsed.txtIlocblob=@x23296_parsed.txtIlocblob@x23334_parsed.txtIlocblob;@23347_parsed.txtIlocblob@23403_parsed.txtIlocblob@23425_parsed.txtIlocblob@23428_parsed.txtIlocblob@23434_parsed.txtIlocbloba@23439_parsed.txtIlocblob@23470_parsed.txtIlocblob=@23482_parsed.txtIlocblob@23520_parsed.txtIlocblob;AX23531_parsed.txtIlocblobAX23564_parsed.txtIlocblobAX23600_parsed.txtIlocblobAX23611_parsed.txtIlocblobAX23637_parsed.txtIlocblobaAX23644_parsed.txtIlocblobAX23649_parsed.txtIlocblob=AX23655_parsed.txtIlocblobAX23658_parsed.txtIlocblob;A23662_parsed.txtIlocblobA23690_parsed.txtIlocblobA23705_parsed.txtIlocblobA23719_parsed.txtIlocblobA23732_parsed.txtIlocblobaA23750_parsed.txtIlocblobA23767_parsed.txtIlocblob=A23795_parsed.txtIlocblobA23801_parsed.txtIlocblob;B823827_parsed.txtIlocblobB823836_parsed.txtIlocblobB823854_parsed.txtIlocblobB823859_parsed.txtIlocblobB823863_parsed.txtIlocblobaB823880_parsed.txtIlocblobB823891_parsed.txtIlocblob=B823904_parsed.txtIlocblobB823966_parsed.txtIlocblob;B23985_parsed.txtIlocblobB23988_parsed.txtIlocblobB23994_parsed.txtIlocblobB24000_parsed.txtIlocblobB24011_parsed.txtIlocblobaB24037_parsed.txtIlocblobB24055_parsed.txtIlocblob=B24058_parsed.txtIlocblobB24081_parsed.txtIlocblob;C24090_parsed.txtIlocblobC24114_parsed.txtIlocblobC24132_parsed.txtIlocblobC24150_parsed.txtIlocblobC24189_parsed.txtIlocblobaC24195_parsed.txtIlocblobC24212_parsed.txtIlocblob=C24225_parsed.txtIlocblobC24293_parsed.txtIlocblob;C24306_parsed.txtIlocblobC24353_parsed.txtIlocblobC24387_parsed.txtIlocblobC24406_parsed.txtIlocblobC24431_parsed.txtIlocblobaC?24478_parsed.txtIlocblob=C24487_parsed.txtIlocblobC24512_parsed.txtIlocblob;C24528_parsed.txtIlocblobC24539_parsed.txtIlocblobC24570_parsed.txtIlocblobC24605_parsed.txtIlocblobC24614_parsed.txtIlocblobaC24619_parsed.txtIlocblobC24623_parsed.txtIlocblob=C24632_parsed.txtIlocblobC24676_parsed.txtIlocblob;Dh24689_parsed.txtIlocblobDh24711_parsed.txtIlocblobDh24737_parsed.txtIlocblobDh24755_parsed.txtIlocblobDh24804_parsed.txtIlocblobaDh24815_parsed.txtIlocblobDh24822_parsed.txtIlocblob=Dh24833_parsed.txtIlocblobDh24840_parsed.txtIlocblob;D24866_parsed.txtIlocblobD24894_parsed.txtIlocblobD24901_parsed.txtIlocblobD24963_parsed.txtIlocblobD24980_parsed.txtIlocblobaD25003_parsed.txtIlocblobD25012_parsed.txtIlocblob=D25034_parsed.txtIlocblobD25039_parsed.txtIlocblob;EH25047_parsed.txtIlocblobEH25056_parsed.txtIlocblobEH25061_parsed.txtIlocblobEH25070_parsed.txtIlocblobEH25082_parsed.txtIlocblobaEH25117_parsed.txtIlocblobEH25153_parsed.txtIlocblob=EH25175_parsed.txtIlocblobEH25244_parsed.txtIlocblob;E25305_parsed.txtIlocblobE25319_parsed.txtIlocblobE25332_parsed.txtIlocblobE25384_parsed.txtIlocblobE25419_parsed.txtIlocblobaE25467_parsed.txtIlocblobE25489_parsed.txtIlocblob=E25495_parsed.txtIlocblobE25544_parsed.txtIlocblob;F(25549_parsed.txtIlocblobF(25581_parsed.txtIlocblobF(25617_parsed.txtIlocblobF(25620_parsed.txtIlocblobF(25631_parsed.txtIlocblobaF(25642_parsed.txtIlocblobF(25653_parsed.txtIlocblob=F(25664_parsed.txtIlocblobF(25675_parsed.txtIlocblob;F25678_parsed.txtIlocblobF25687_parsed.txtIlocblobF25696_parsed.txtIlocblobF25703_parsed.txtIlocblobF25712_parsed.txtIlocblobaF25782_parsed.txtIlocblobF?25816_parsed.txtIlocblobF25830_parsed.txtIlocblob;G25852_parsed.txtIlocblobG25879_parsed.txtIlocblobG25886_parsed.txtIlocblobG25902_parsed.txtIlocblobG25935_parsed.txtIlocblobaG25938_parsed.txtIlocblobG25946_parsed.txtIlocblob=G25957_parsed.txtIlocblobG25960_parsed.txtIlocblob;Gx25971_parsed.txtIlocblobGx26006_parsed.txtIlocblobGx26020_parsed.txtIlocblobGx26042_parsed.txtIlocblobGx26053_parsed.txtIlocblobaGx26096_parsed.txtIlocblobGx26139_parsed.txtIlocblob=Gx26161_parsed.txtIlocblobGx26182_parsed.txtIlocblob;G26208_parsed.txtIlocblobG26214_parsed.txtIlocblobG26219_parsed.txtIlocblobG26223_parsed.txtIlocblobG26232_parsed.txtIlocblobaG26241_parsed.txtIlocblobG26250_parsed.txtIlocblob=G26267_parsed.txtIlocblobG26276_parsed.txtIlocblob;HX26300_parsed.txtIlocblobHX26326_parsed.txtIlocblobHX26337_parsed.txtIlocblobHX26358_parsed.txtIlocblobHX26362_parsed.txtIlocblobaHX26381_parsed.txtIlocblobHX26390_parsed.txtIlocblob=HX26400_parsed.txtIlocblobHX26411_parsed.txtIlocblob;H26426_parsed.txtIlocblobH26437_parsed.txtIlocblobH26444_parsed.txtIlocblobH26455_parsed.txtIlocblobH26458_parsed.txtIlocblobaH26462_parsed.txtIlocblobH26481_parsed.txtIlocblob=H26490_parsed.txtIlocblobH26519_parsed.txtIlocblob;I826523_parsed.txtIlocblobI826532_parsed.txtIlocblobI826541_parsed.txtIlocblobI826550_parsed.txtIlocblobI826567_parsed.txtIlocblobaI826576_parsed.txtIlocblobI826584_parsed.txtIlocblob=I826589_parsed.txtIlocblobI826595_parsed.txtIlocblob;I26612_parsed.txtIlocblobI26628_parsed.txtIlocblobI26634_parsed.txtIlocblobI26656_parsed.txtIlocblobI26661_parsed.txtIlocblobaI26670_parsed.txtIlocblobI26682_parsed.txtIlocblob=I?26742_parsed.txtIlocblob;J26769_parsed.txtIlocblobJ26813_parsed.txtIlocblobJ26871_parsed.txtIlocblobJ26965_parsed.txtIlocblobJ26968_parsed.txtIlocblobaJ26997_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27019_parsed.txtIlocblob=J27050_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27100_parsed.txtIlocblob;J27111_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27137_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27149_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27155_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27158_parsed.txtIlocblobaJ27162_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27206_parsed.txtIlocblob=J27217_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27220_parsed.txtIlocblob;J27231_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27242_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27253_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27264_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27269_parsed.txtIlocblobaJ27287_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27328_parsed.txtIlocblob=J27339_parsed.txtIlocblobJ27347_parsed.txtIlocblob;Kh27361_parsed.txtIlocblobKh27393_parsed.txtIlocblobKh27412_parsed.txtIlocblobKh27425_parsed.txtIlocblobKh27428_parsed.txtIlocblobaKh27456_parsed.txtIlocblobKh27461_parsed.txtIlocblob=Kh27506_parsed.txtIlocblobKh27520_parsed.txtIlocblob;K27531_parsed.txtIlocblobK27542_parsed.txtIlocblobK27569_parsed.txtIlocblobK27575_parsed.txtIlocblobK27578_parsed.txtIlocblobaK27596_parsed.txtIlocblobK27637_parsed.txtIlocblob=K27644_parsed.txtIlocblobK27705_parsed.txtIlocblob;LH27767_parsed.txtIlocblobLH27827_parsed.txtIlocblobLH27848_parsed.txtIlocblobLH27891_parsed.txtIlocblobLH27909_parsed.txtIlocblobaLH27933_parsed.txtIlocblobLH27966_parsed.txtIlocblob=LH27985_parsed.txtIlocblobLH27988_parsed.txtIlocblob;L28045_parsed.txtIlocblobL28048_parsed.txtIlocblobL28059_parsed.txtIlocblobL28072_parsed.txtIlocblobL28080_parsed.txtIlocblobaL28104_parsed.txtIlocblobL28109_parsed.txtIlocblob=L28118_parsed.txtIlocblobL?28166_parsed.txtIlocblobM(28185_parsed.txtIlocblobM(28188_parsed.txtIlocblobM(28194_parsed.txtIlocblobM(28260_parsed.txtIlocblobaM(28271_parsed.txtIlocblobM(28307_parsed.txtIlocblob=M(28321_parsed.txtIlocblobM(28343_parsed.txtIlocblob;M28379_parsed.txtIlocblobM28397_parsed.txtIlocblobM28421_parsed.txtIlocblobM28479_parsed.txtIlocblobM28486_parsed.txtIlocblobaM28524_parsed.txtIlocblobM28546_parsed.txtIlocblob=M28592_parsed.txtIlocblobM28609_parsed.txtIlocblob;N28618_parsed.txtIlocblobN28633_parsed.txtIlocblobN28651_parsed.txtIlocblobN28666_parsed.txtIlocblobN28694_parsed.txtIlocblobaN28699_parsed.txtIlocblobN28710_parsed.txtIlocblob=N28727_parsed.txtIlocblobN28745_parsed.txtIlocblob;Nx28748_parsed.txtIlocblobNx28759_parsed.txtIlocblobNx28772_parsed.txtIlocblobNx28780_parsed.txtIlocblobNx28808_parsed.txtIlocblobaNx28814_parsed.txtIlocblobNx28823_parsed.txtIlocblob=Nx28876_parsed.txtIlocblobNx28898_parsed.txtIlocblob;N28926_parsed.txtIlocblobN28955_parsed.txtIlocblobN28973_parsed.txtIlocblobN28981_parsed.txtIlocblobN29024_parsed.txtIlocblobaN29038_parsed.txtIlocblobN29046_parsed.txtIlocblob=N29083_parsed.txtIlocblobN29092_parsed.txtIlocblob;OX29168_parsed.txtIlocblobOX29227_parsed.txtIlocblobOX29245_parsed.txtIlocblobOX29291_parsed.txtIlocblobOX29315_parsed.txtIlocblobaOX29340_parsed.txtIlocblobOX29388_parsed.txtIlocblob=OX29418_parsed.txtIlocblobOX29440_parsed.txtIlocblob;O29466_parsed.txtIlocblobO29477_parsed.txtIlocblobO29485_parsed.txtIlocblobO29488_parsed.txtIlocblobO29501_parsed.txtIlocblobaO29510_parsed.txtIlocblobO29554_parsed.txtIlocblob=O29559_parsed.txtIlocblobO29563_parsed.txtIlocblob;P8?29607_parsed.txtIlocblobP829665_parsed.txtIlocblobP829668_parsed.txtIlocblobP829679_parsed.txtIlocblobaP829686_parsed.txtIlocblobP829697_parsed.txtIlocblob=P829729_parsed.txtIlocblobP829738_parsed.txtIlocblob;P29757_parsed.txtIlocblobP29771_parsed.txtIlocblobP29792_parsed.txtIlocblobP29806_parsed.txtIlocblobP29817_parsed.txtIlocblobaP29820_parsed.txtIlocblobP29831_parsed.txtIlocblob=P29842_parsed.txtIlocblobP29864_parsed.txtIlocblob;Q29878_parsed.txtIlocblobQ29903_parsed.txtIlocblobQ29912_parsed.txtIlocblobQ29925_parsed.txtIlocblobQ29928_parsed.txtIlocblobaQ29934_parsed.txtIlocblobQ29956_parsed.txtIlocblob=Q29961_parsed.txtIlocblobQ29970_parsed.txtIlocblob;Q29982_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30019_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30023_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30095_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30098_parsed.txtIlocblobaQ30100_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30173_parsed.txtIlocblob=Q30220_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30264_parsed.txtIlocblob;Q30287_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30296_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30325_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30328_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30347_parsed.txtIlocblobaQ30356_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30425_parsed.txtIlocblob=Q30428_parsed.txtIlocblobQ30439_parsed.txtIlocblob;Rh30447_parsed.txtIlocblobRh30461_parsed.txtIlocblobRh30470_parsed.txtIlocblobRh30493_parsed.txtIlocblobRh30506_parsed.txtIlocblobaRh30542_parsed.txtIlocblobRh30564_parsed.txtIlocblob=Rh30596_parsed.txtIlocblobRh30600_parsed.txtIlocblob;R30611_parsed.txtIlocblobR30655_parsed.txtIlocblobR30681_parsed.txtIlocblobR30708_parsed.txtIlocblobR30714_parsed.txtIlocblobaR30719_parsed.txtIlocblobR30732_parsed.txtIlocblob=R30741_parsed.txtIlocblobR30750_parsed.txtIlocblob;SH30767_parsed.txtIlocblobSHA30880_parsed.txtIlocblobSH30933_parsed.txtIlocblobSH8137_parsed.txtIlocblob;(8144_parsed.txtIlocblob(8149_parsed.txtIlocblob(8155_parsed.txtIlocblob(8206_parsed.txtIlocblob(8217_parsed.txtIlocbloba(8220_parsed.txtIlocblob(8231_parsed.txtIlocblob=(8278_parsed.txtIlocblob(8287_parsed.txtIlocblob;8312_parsed.txtIlocblob8356_parsed.txtIlocblob8361_parsed.txtIlocblob8370_parsed.txtIlocblob8412_parsed.txtIlocbloba8425_parsed.txtIlocblob8428_parsed.txtIlocblob=8434_parsed.txtIlocblob8439_parsed.txtIlocblob;8447_parsed.txtIlocblob8456_parsed.txtIlocblob8461_parsed.txtIlocblob8470_parsed.txtIlocblob8569_parsed.txtIlocbloba8575_parsed.txtIlocblob8578_parsed.txtIlocblob=8587_parsed.txtIlocblob8611_parsed.txtIlocblob;x8626_parsed.txtIlocblobx8637_parsed.txtIlocblobx8644_parsed.txtIlocblobx8649_parsed.txtIlocblobx8662_parsed.txtIlocblobax8714_parsed.txtIlocblobx8719_parsed.txtIlocblob=x8723_parsed.txtIlocblobx8732_parsed.txtIlocblob;8741_parsed.txtIlocblob8750_parsed.txtIlocblob8767_parsed.txtIlocblob8776_parsed.txtIlocblob8784_parsed.txtIlocbloba8798_parsed.txtIlocblob8801_parsed.txtIlocblob=8810_parsed.txtIlocblob8836_parsed.txtIlocblob;X8845_parsed.txtIlocblobX8863_parsed.txtIlocblobX8872_parsed.txtIlocblobX8880_parsed.txtIlocblobX8891_parsed.txtIlocblobaX8940_parsed.txtIlocblobX8951_parsed.txtIlocblob=X8977_parsed.txtIlocblobX8985_parsed.txtIlocblob;8988_parsed.txtIlocblob8994_parsed.txtIlocblob8999_parsed.txtIlocblob9020_parsed.txtIlocblob9031_parsed.txtIlocbloba9064_parsed.txtIlocblob9069_parsed.txtIlocblob=9075_parsed.txtIlocblob10820_parsed.txtIlocblobX11823_parsed.txtIlocblob!h12967_parsed.txtIlocbloba$x13953_parsed.txtIlocblob'14757_parsed.txtIlocblob=*	15759_parsed.txtIlocblob-
17097_parsed.txtIlocblob;1(18395_parsed.txtIlocblob4819593_parsed.txtIlocblob7H
20963_parsed.txtIlocblob:X22214_parsed.txtIlocblob=h23231_parsed.txtIlocbloba@x24464_parsed.txtIlocblobC25807_parsed.txtIlocblob=F26717_parsed.txtIlocblobI28133_parsed.txtIlocblob;M(29580_parsed.txtIlocblobP830810_parsed.txtIlocblobSH9078_parsed.txtIlocblob;8;8447_parsed.txtIlocblob8456_parsed.txtIlocblob8461_parsed.txtIlocblob8470_parsed.txtIlocblob8569_parsed.txtIlocbloba8575_parsed.txtIlocblob8578_parsed.txtIlocblob=8587_parsed.txtIlocblob8611_parsed.txtIlocblob;x8626_parsed.txtIlocblobx8637_parsed.txtIlocblobx8644_parsed.txtIlocblobXEP 0@P`p 0@DSDB `` @ @txtIlocblob;8;8447_parsed.txtIlocblob8456_parsed.txtIlocblob8461_parsed.txtIlocblob8470_parsed.txtIlocblob8569_parsed.txtIlocbloba8575_parsed.txtIlocblob8578_parsed.txtIlocblob=8587_parsed.txtIlocblob8611_parsed.txtIlocblob;x8626_parsed.txtIlocblobx8637_parsed.txtIlocblobx8644_parsed.txtIlocblob